 
 
C I T Y  O F  P O R T L A N D ,  O R E G O N 
   CITY BUDGET OFFICE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Memorandum 
 
 To:   Diana Nunez, Strategic Projects Manager supporting the Charter Commission 
   Julia Meier, Strategic Projects Manager supporting the Charter Commission 
  Cc:   Shoshanah Oppenheim, Strategic Projects and Opportunities Team Manager     
   Maja Haium, Senior Deputy City Attorney 
  
From:  Jessica Kinard, City Budget Director  
  
 Date:  October 14, 2022  
 Subject: Commission Request for Participatory Budgeting Set Aside information   
 
 
I understand that the Charter Commission is considering language to include a set aside of General 
Fund resources for a participatory budgeting program or process and is interested in understanding 
both the resources made available by different levels of mandatory set asides (0.5%, 1%, 5%), and 
are interested in understanding the potential impacts of that set aside on current City services.  
 
This memo strives to answer these questions, acknowledging that there is significant uncertainty 
with regards to the actual impacts on City services. This memo begins with an overview of the 
General Fund for background and clarification before providing cost estimates. Please note that the 
figures in this memo are approximates, as this analysis was conducted with limited time this week.  
 
I will be available to join the Commission meeting on Tuesday, October 19th to walk through this 
information and address any questions the Commission may have. You and the Commissioners 
should free to also reach out to me via email or phone with additional questions at any time.  
 
The General Fund Account vs. General Fund Discretionary Resources 
From an accounting standpoint, the “General Fund” is Fund 100, which is where bureaus that 
receive General Fund resources house their budget and accounting operations. However, bureaus 
also receive other types of dedicated resources in this fund. For example, Parks receives fees for 
recreational services (that can only be used on those recreational services) and expends $40M+ of 
Parks Operating Levy resources (which are restricted to eligible uses) in the General Fund account. 
This means that when someone uses the term General Fund, they could be talking about both 
discretionary and non-discretionary resources.  
 
General Fund account “Fund 100” resources in the FY 2022-23 Adopted Budget total $927M; 
C I T Y  B U D G E T  O F F I C E  
Jessica Kinard, Director 
(503) 823-6963 
1120 SW 5th Avenue, Suite 1010 
Portland, Oregon 97204 
www.portlandoregon.gov/cbo 
Ted Wheeler, Mayor 
Carmen Rubio, Commissioner 
Dan Ryan, Commissioner 
Jo Ann Hardesty, Commissioner 
Mingus Mapps, Commissioner 
Mary Hull Caballero, Auditor 
 
 
 
 
 
 


however, this includes non-discretionary resources. This number likely led to the City Attorney 
working with the Commission sharing an estimate of $4.5 million equating to 0.5% of the General 
Fund at the October 11th meeting. However, upon talking with the City Attorney, we together 
clarified and agreed that the Commission is likely interested in is the ongoing General Fund 
discretionary figure – which are resources that can be expended more broadly. In the Adopted 
Budget, General Fund ongoing discretionary resources totaled $625.3 million (note, the Adopted 
Budget states the General Fund discretionary total as a larger number because it that total figure 
includes both ongoing and one-time resources). This $625.3 million dollar value is what is used to 
calculate the estimates provided below. 
  
Resource Generated with Different Set-Asides 
The current year adopted budget included $625.3 million in ongoing General Fund discretionary 
resources. At that level of resource, the following funding would be generated at different levels of 
the set aside: 
 
 
 
It is worth noting that this allocation is expected to grow each year based on property and other tax 
receipts, so the General Fund discretionary value would be higher when the  proposed program 
takes effect following voter approval.   
 
City Services Impacts 
It is very difficult to state what the impact on bureaus of these different set-asides would be 
because the value of cuts that would be required, the cut proposals subsequently offered by 
bureaus, and what cuts are approved by the Council each depends on several different factors.  
 
Will cuts be required to fund these set asides? 
Over the past 10 years, forecasted available ongoing General Fund discretionary revenues have 
fluctuated from a low of a deficit of $21.5 million to high of a surplus of $13.1 million. The 
fluctuation makes it hard to say for certain whether a required set-aside in the future will require 
cuts to bureaus, as it is possible that additional resources may be available to fund the set-aside in 
the year that the new program takes effect.  
 
However, the average forecast over the last decade was a deficit of $1.0 million. When there has 
been a surplus, it has typically been less than $5 million.   
 
While it’s possible that there would be funds available in the forecast to support this additional set 
aside, the above data suggests that it would be reasonable to assume that these resources would 
come from reductions to bureaus. 
  
What would be the impacts to City services of reductions? 
If bureaus were to absorb the cost of this set aside, it’s worth noting that the percent cut to bureaus 
would be greater than the percent set aside because there are several allocations that cannot (or 
likely would not) be cut. In the Adopted Budget, over 10% of ongoing General Fund discretionary 
Total FY22-23 Adopted Budget Ongoing 
General Fund Discretionary 625,300,000$              
0.5% 3,126,500$                   
1% 6,253,000$                   
5% 31,265,000$                

resources went towards debt service costs, required reserve and contingency deposits, employee 
cost of Living expenditures, legally mandated allocations, and Council and Auditor office expenses.   
 
In the Adopted Budget, over 70% General Fund discretionary resources were allocated to four 
allocations: the Portland Police Bureau, Portland Fire and Rescue, Portland Parks and Recreation and 
the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Combined with the fact that over 10% allocations cannot be 
cut, this means that any reduction is likely to either impact these four service areas or significantly 
reduce or eliminate other programs in bureaus.  
 
Using an across-the-board cut methodology and current year Adopted Budget figures, here is 
approximately what those cuts would mean to current year adopted budgets. 
 
Approximate across-the-board 
cuts to bureaus using FY23 figures 
to obtain 0.5% of 
GFD to obtain 1% of GFD to obtain 5% of GFD 
Portland Police Bureau $1,160,000  $2,330,000  $11,638,314  
Portland Fire & Rescue $760,000  $1,530,000  $7,630,000  
Portland Parks & Recreation $470,000  $920,000  $4,620,000  
Joint Office of Homeless Services $160,000  $320,000  $1,580,000  
All Other Bureaus/Allocations $580,000  $1,150,000  $5,791,686  
Total $3,130,000  $6,250,000  $31,260,000  
  
It should be noted that reductions do not have to be taken across-the-board equally. However, if the 
above larger bureaus are held harmless, that would result in much more significant percentage 
reductions and/or program eliminations for smaller bureaus such as Planning and Sustainability,  
Community and Civic Life, Prosper Portland, Emergency Communications, Emergency Management, 
Equity & Human Rights, and City supportive services like Human Resources, Revenue and Financial 
Management, the Attorney’s Office, Government Affairs, and the Budget Office.. 
 
Service Impacts of a 0.5% Reduction 
It is difficult to say what the impacts of lower-level reductions may be, as the impact varies from 
bureau to bureau. Many bureaus may be able to “absorb” a 0.5% reduction with little to no service 
disruption. However, the City has recently undergone two years of significant budget reductions as a 
result of the COVID-19 pandemic, so reductions are more likely to impact direct services than would 
be the case a few years ago. If bureaus are unable to find the savings via reductions to materials and 
services, bureaus are likely to look to eliminate vacant positions, which will reduce programmatic 
service levels.  
 
For the larger General Fund allocations, bureaus would likely submit clear reductions in service. 
Below are the potential impacts based upon prior reduction submissions from bureaus as well as 
CBO analysis: 
 
For Portland Police Bureau, a reduction of $1.16 million could be met with a reduction in vacant 
police officer positions. While this would not result in reduced current officers, it would result in less 
funding for overtime backfill of patrol shifts. This reduction may not immediately reduce service 
levels but would eventually lead to fewer officers available for patrol.  
 
In past cut exercises, Portland Fire & Rescue has routinely offered eliminating one or more of their 
rapid response vehicles and associated firefighter positions, and/or partial or full-year closure of fire 
stations. The $760,000 estimated reduction in the above table is roughly equivalent to a partial-year 

closure of a fire station and the elimination of 5 firefighter positions. 
 
With the passage of the 2020 Parks Operating Levy, Portland Parks and Recreation has been able to 
significantly expand its recreation programming and parks services. A reduction in General Fund 
would most likely lead to a commensurate reduction in funding for these expanded services, as both 
General Fund and Parks Levy resources jointly support operations.  
 
In response to a cut exercise, the Joint Office of Homeless Services may reduce funding for 
emergency shelter beds, supportive housing units, or placements into permanent supportive 
housing among other services. A reduction of $160,000 is equivalent to about 18 year-round 
emergency shelter beds.    
 
Service Impacts of a 1% Reduction 
At the 1% reduction level, bureaus will likely look to eliminate vacant positions and/or reduce 
contracted services or other materials and services. As with the 0.5% reduction, it may be possible 
for some bureaus to “absorb” this level of reduction without notable service level impacts, but that 
is less likely than it was a few years ago. Larger bureau allocations would likely put up more notable 
service level impacts.  
 
For the Police Bureau, a $2.3M reduction would likely be met with further elimination of vacant 
police officer positions. The larger size of the funding reduction would likely lead to the ability to 
provide less overtime backfill and lead to a reduction in service in the mid- and longer-term even 
though only vacant positions are eliminated.   
 
For Portland Fire and Rescue, a $1.5 million reduction could be roughly equivalent to the closure of 
one fire station.  
 
For Portland Parks and Recreation, they may reduce parks and/or recreational programming by 
$920,000.  
 
As mentioned above, the Joint Office of Homeless Services may reduce funding for emergency 
shelter beds, supportive housing units, or placements into permanent supportive housing among 
other services. A reduction of $320,000 is equivalent to about 32 units of supportive housing.  
 
Service Impacts of a 5% Reduction 
A reduction of $31.3 million would cause significant service level reductions. The largest ongoing cut 
exercise that the City has successfully implemented in the past several years was to close a deficit of 
just over $20 million ongoing General Fund. The City undertook this once during FY 2013-14 budget 
development and again during the pandemic. This reduction would be 50% greater than any 
reduction the City has achieved within recent history.   
 
The reduction of $31.3 million across bureaus would likely lead to the elimination of several dozen – 
and potentially over 100 – positions across the City and would very likely cause several layoffs of 
current employees. At this level of reduction, programs may be eliminated across the City.  
 
The FY 2021-22 Adopted Budget is a reasonable proxy for identifying the potential impact of a 5% 
ongoing budget cut which reduced the Police Bureau's budget by 5% or approximately $10.1 
million. To implement the budget reductions, the bureau eliminated 44 vacant positions which 
included a mix of sworn and non-sworn staff and reduced overtime and planned capital expenditure 

for important projects. Given that a vast majority of the bureau's expenses are for personnel, an 
additional ongoing 5% budget reduction would require additional cuts to sworn and non-sworn 
staff, which would likely be a mix of filled and vacant police officer and non-sworn positions 
assuming the bureau's successful recruitment efforts continue. A 5% reduction would also result in 
reduced overtime expenses which the bureau relies on to meet shift minimums given the bureau's 
historically low level of officers available for patrol. 
For Portland Fire & Rescue, a $7.6 million reduction would be equivalent to a reduction in staffing 
that would close approximately 5 fire stations.  
 
A reduction of $4.6 million to Portland Parks and Recreation would result in reduced programming 
for parks and recreational services and may also reduce funding for asset maintenance of parks 
facilities, structures and natural areas as well as community centers. The bureau may be required to 
lay off employees to process this size of a reduction.   
 
A $1.58 million reduction to Homeless Services funding could mean a reduction in a variety of 
services. For context, this amount would be equivalent to a reduction in placement of approximately 
100 people from shelter into permanent housing.  
  
Alternative Funding Considerations 
In accordance with City Financial Policy and good financial management practices, the City 
Economist balances forecasted General Fund resources over a five-year horizon. Resources that are 
available for all five years of the forecast are considered “ongoing" while resources that are only 
available in the first year(s) of the forecast are deemed to be available on a one-time basis. Thus, the 
General Fund forecast divides available resources (or deficits) into two categories: ongoing 
resources and one-time resources. Ongoing resources are typically available at much lower levels 
than one-time resources.   
  
Another opportunity for the Commission to consider is dedicating a percentage of the one-time 
available forecasted resources. While the availability of these resources can more significantly 
fluctuate annually, the allocation of these resources does not require bureau cuts. The City has 
existing financial policy that states that 50% of one-time resources must go towards critical capital 
deferred maintenance needs (things like fixing bridges, roads, traffic signals, park trails, community 
centers, and fire stations, among other asset maintenance needs). The Commission could consider 
earmarking a portion or all of the remaining 50% of available one-time forecasted resources 
annually for community allocation through a participatory budgeting program or process. The 
median amount of available one-time resource in the forecast over the past ten years is $18.4 
million. The median amount made available by a 25% set aside of these resources would be $4.6 
million.  
  
As General Fund discretionary only comprises 10% of the City’s total budget, the Commission should 
also consider other resources – such as capital planning resources – that would be a good fit for a 
participatory budgeting process. As capital project resources fluctuate significantly, it might be best 
to consider general language around considering these resources as part of the program rather than 
a specific percentage allocation.  
 