 
  Participatory Budgeting for Portland   1 
 
 
 
 
 
Participatory Budgeting 
for Portland 
 
A City Club Research Report 
 
 
  
City Club of Portland | March 14, 2025 
 


Participatory Budgeting for Portland   2 
Contents 
[ctrl-click to jump to an item] 
E
xecutive Summary ........................................................................................................ 3 
About this study ............................................................................................................. 5 
The Study Charge 5 
Methodology 6 
Structure of this Report 7 
Background .................................................................................................................... 8 
What is Participatory Budgeting? 8 
The Origins and Spread of Participatory Budgeting 11 
Participatory Budgeting in Portland   12 
F
indings ........................................................................................................................ 18 
The status of PB in the U.S. 18 
Claims for and against 28 
Discussion/Analysis ...................................................................................................... 36 
Introduction 36 
A. What does “success” mean for a PB program? 36 
B. Learning from other cities’ use of PB 38 
C. Three critical issues: what does the evidence suggest? 41 
D. Potential unintended consequences 51 
Conclusions .................................................................................................................. 53 
Recommendations ........................................................................................................ 57 
Committee .................................................................................................................... 59 
Appendices ................................................................................................................... 60 
Bibliography .................................................................................................................. 84 
Witnesses ................................................................................................................... ..94
Acknowledgments / Errata (changes made after membership vote)............................... ..96 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   3 
 
Executive Summary 
 
Your committee recommends that the city of Portland (in the words of a recent 
Government Transition Advisory Committee report) “explore participatory budgeting” by 
implementing a carefully designed pilot program. 
  
Participatory budgeting is a widespread practice for delegating some municipal spending 
decisions to residents.  Originating in Brazil in the 1980s, participatory budgeting has been 
adopted for a variety of reasons and in varying circumstances.  Some programs are city-
wide while others are decentralized to districts/wards or to spending by a particular city 
bureau. There are many ways to apply participatory budgeting. 
  
The appeal of public participation in municipal budgeting processes is clear.  Perhaps no 
government activity has such immediate impact on residents while at the same time being 
seen as so challenging, technical, and hard to decipher.  Participatory budgeting promises 
not only to make budgeting transparent and accountable to the public but to put spending 
decisions directly into the hands of residents. 
  
This report outlines the meaning and history of participatory budgeting (with a focus on 
discussions here in Portland) and then documents our research into the following topic 
areas in response to our charge.  (An extensive bibliography listing our sources is provided 
at the end of this report, along with a list of witnesses.) 
 
• We evaluate the experience of more than a dozen other U.S. cities, based on 
interviews we conducted and on published reports in the popular and the 
academic press. 
• We report on the wide range of variation in how the practice has been used, 
highlighting U.S. examples but also looking at the widespread international use 
of participatory budgeting. 
• We compile and assess the most common claims made in support of 
participatory budgeting and the most widely cited arguments against it, 
information we gathered through interviews with proponents and opponents as 
well as through an extensive review of published claims and evidence. 
• We examine the relevant evidence and provide our conclusions and 
recommendations in the context of Portland’s unique history and 
circumstances. 
We have found supporting evidence that participatory budgeting does provide ordinary 
residents with power over budgetary decisions where fiscal resources are available.  We 
have also found that it is expensive to administer participatory budgeting initiatives.  It is 
also clear from our research that municipalities that implement participatory budgeting 
rely on its appealing promise rather than on evidence of its concrete benefits.  
Independent researchers repeatedly cite the absence of solid evidence for the 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   4 
 
effectiveness of participatory budgeting in meeting its goals, starting with the general 
fuzziness of the stated goals themselves: 
“PB is sufficiently broad a policy that it can be promoted by very different groups for very 
different motivations, which goes some way to explaining how it can be apparently 
successful while there is such great disagreement as to what it is for. PB an easily be ‘all 
things to all people’, but lack of clarity and vision in achieving specific goals will inevitably 
inhibit examinations of its impact.” Rumbul (2018) 
  
We conclude, however, that a well-thought-out exploration of this practice is appropriate 
for the city of Portland and its residents.  A carefully designed pilot program, including 
clear and measurable goals, would apply the due diligence required to conserve resources 
and to avoid interfering with the extensive reforms of city government— including the 
budgeting process— now underway in our city.  The best way forward is to explore 
participatory budgeting in collaboration with residents on a timeline that respects the 
serious budget challenges now facing the city. 
  
We believe that participatory budgeting could benefit Portland residents if done with 
forethought, which is why we recommend a pilot project.  As a scholar who has studied the 
practice since its origins and has clearly documented its limitations has said: “An 
important implication from this work is that it is better for governments to adopt PB than 
not to adopt PB. In other words, having PB was better than not having it.” (Wampler, 2022)  
  
The need for public participation is acute, especially in municipal budgeting; the popularity 
of the practice testifies to its appeal; and it has the potential to complement the city’s 
current agenda of reforms.  We offer our conclusions and recommendations as a starting 
point for a thorough exploration of what participatory budgeting might do for Portland. 
 
 
 
 
[an Errata sheet listing changes to the report made after members voted appears on page 96]  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   5 
 
About this study 
The Study Charge 
 
In May of 2024, City Club of Portland charged this committee with producing this research 
report on the possible future of Participatory Budgeting in Portland. 
 
In 2022, the Portland Charter Commission recommended that the City of Portland adopt 
participatory budgeting.  The recommendation was forwarded to the City Council, which 
did not refer it to the ballot, citing concerns about affordability.  
 
In 2023 and early 2024, an attempt was made by a consortium of advocates to place an 
initiative on the ballot which would have amended Portland’s charter to require a type of 
participatory budgeting.  Although the initiative’s sponsors are not currently moving 
forward with the initiative, it is likely that the concept will be pursued in the future, either by 
initiative or potentially by action of the newly constituted City Council. 
 
This committee, composed of members with diverse backgrounds, expertise and skills, 
met for the first time in June 2024 as a ballot-study committee in response to a charge from 
the Research Board in late May. After the withdrawal of the ballot measure, the Board 
chose not to abandon the effort but to redirect the committee to produce a comprehensive 
research study of the potential for participatory budgeting in Portland.  
 
The charge broadened from a review of the proposed ballot measure to a comprehensive 
study that would give the membership and local leaders a full view of this practice’s 
possible role in Portland’s future, 
 
While the original draft charter amendment and the more recent citizen initiative provided 
a starting point, the committee worked to take a broader and deeper view of participatory 
budgeting’s promise, risks, costs, variations, and potential “fit” in Portland today. We 
discovered that this practice is a civic engagement tool with a long history around the 
world, the lessons from which can help Portland make a sound decision about whether to 
adopt and use it and about the most promising ways to do so. 
 
This report was developed by the committee with the following assumptions in mind: 
● Participatory Budgeting exists in many forms, with variations in goals, structure, 
process, outcomes, and implementation strategies. 
● The recent related proposals in Portland, from the charter commission and from a 
citizen initiative, do not describe the only way or necessarily the best way for this 
practice to be used here. 
● If it is to be used in Portland, a participatory budgeting program should be adapted 
to the city’s unique history and circumstances. 
● The experience of other U.S. cities constitutes a rich source of useful information. 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   6 
 
● Advocates and opponents of this practice, locally and across the nation, are 
speaking and acting in good faith. 
● Evolving adjustments to the structure of city government and ongoing reforms of the 
city budget process affect the prospects for adoption and must be accommodated. 
● The options for this committee are: (1) to recommend a participatory budgeting 
program unreservedly; (2) to recommend it only under certain conditions and with 
suggested guidelines or best practices; or (3) not to recommend it. 
 
This study addresses the following three sets of questions: 
 
(i) PURPOSE AND GOALS: What would be the purposes or goals of Participatory 
Budgeting in Portland?  What problems is it intended to solve, and in what ways is 
it intended to make Portland better?  What would be the potential risks or 
downsides? 
 
(ii) STRUCTURE AND PROCESS
 If Participatory Budgeting were to be adopted, how 
should it be structured and implemented to best achieve those purposes or goals, 
consistent with achieving the City’s other key goals and priorities?  How can the 
risks or downsides best be avoided? 
 
(iii) RECOMMENDATION: Should Portland adopt Participatory Budgeting? Under what 
conditions, and within what guidelines? How should the nature of a PB program in 
Portland be determined, and by whom? 
 
Methodology 
 
Over a six-month period, committee members interviewed witnesses of three kinds: (a) 
representatives of other U.S. cities where participatory budgeting has been used; (b) 
advocates and opponents, in Portland and elsewhere; and (c) members of the Portland 
city budgeting staff and others in leadership positions, now and in the recent past.  
 
Around two dozen witnesses spoke with the committee. A complete list of witnesses is at 
the end of this report. Committee members also reviewed relevant reports, research 
studies, published testimony, and news items. We assembled data from multiple sources 
to better understand the nature of participatory budgeting as a tool for civic engagement 
and other benefits and, more important, its potential in Portland. The attached 
bibliography lists both works cited in this report and publications consulted as we 
developed a thorough understanding of the issues related to the use of participatory 
budgeting in our city. 
 
After a thorough review of the evidence and witness testimony, the committee deliberated 
and reached the conclusions and recommendations contained in this report. 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   7 
 
Structure of this Report 
 
This research report describes the practice of participatory budgeting in a Background 
section and then moves to a report of the committee’s Findings related to the experiences 
of a selection of U.S. cities, the variations in how the practice is applied and implemented, 
the claims that are made for its benefits, and the limitations and downsides that have 
been reported by independent practitioners, scholars, and others who have studied it over 
many years, all in the context of participatory budgeting’s potential for successful use in 
Portland. 
 
The committee’s evaluation of these facts, including our assessment of the evidence 
behind both the claimed benefits and the cited limitations and risks, is contained in the 
Discussion/Analysis chapter. This lays out several key issues of critical importance to 
Portland as participatory budgeting is and has been proposed and discussed. 
 
Finally, we list our Conclusions from this study and then offer as Recommendations a 
general approach and an initial framework for action by the city and its residents. 
 
 
 
 
  

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   8 
 
Background 
 
To understand the potential impact of a participatory budgeting program in Portland, we 
define the practice here and outline its popularity and spread since its origins. Then we 
provide a brief history of how this practice has been under discussion in Portland over the 
past 15 years, including a short description of two recent local applications of participatory 
budgeting. Finally, we summarize reforms to the budgeting process that are underway in 
connection with the Charter Commission’s changes to city government— reforms that any 
planned use of participatory budgeting should accommodate. 
 
What is Participatory Budgeting? 
 
Participatory budgeting refers to any democratic process that gives residents the authority 
to decide how to spend public funds.  
There is no “official” or legal definition of participatory budgeting. It is widely and diversely 
applied across different jurisdictions in ways that may not look alike. Based on its varied 
40-year history, any program with these two characteristics can be called “participatory 
budgeting”: 
1. The money spent is “public”— the product of government action. 
2. Ordinary members of the community, not their elected representatives, decide 
how to spend this money. Their decisions are final and binding and are 
implemented. 
Members of a community are authorized to make the type of decisions that are 
traditionally reserved for elected authorities and their subordinates. This binding decision-
making authority distinguishes it from other practices for public participation in budgeting, 
like advisory groups and public forums. It is an alternative to our customary electoral 
democracy: a form of direct democracy. 
In this report, the focus is on the use of participatory budgeting by municipal governments. 
However, it has also been used in other contexts. Here in Portland, a youth-oriented 
program and a Metro grants program (both described later in this report) have employed 
participatory practices that meet the basic definition of participatory budgeting offered 
above. Both used public funds that are not part of a municipal budget. 
Public high schools (in New York City, Phoenix AZ, and elsewhere) and other non-
governmental organizations have been using participatory budgeting to foster civic 
engagement and collective decision making. An anti-poverty initiative in Rochester NY 
worked with a local land trust to use the process in 2018. The Toronto ON Community 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   9 
 
Housing Authority has used it since 2002, and at least one tech company is experimenting 
with it to manage its portfolio. 1 
Despite these differences, in every recognized application of participatory budgeting 
participating residents are authorized by a government to make binding financial 
decisions, decisions that the government agrees in advance to implement, subject only to 
any restrictions specified by state law or other overriding authority. 
Here are a few more formal definitions of participatory budgeting— some brief, some more 
elaborate— from a variety of sources: 
Participatory budgeting (PB) is a democratic process in which community members decide how to 
spend part of a public budget. It gives people real power over real money. The Participatory 
Budgeting Project 
 
Participatory Budgeting is a 1) replicable decision-making process whereby 
citizens 2) deliberate
2 publicly over the distribution of 3) limited public resources that are instituted. 
Russon Gilman, Hollie (2012) 
 
The basic principles behind participatory budgeting are that ordinary citizens are mobilized into local 
meetings in which they receive information about the municipal budget, they propose policy 
projects, they deliberate over policy projects, and they finally vote on which projects should enter the 
yearly budget. The municipal executive is heavily involved at each stage of the process, including the 
implementation phase, which is either done by municipal agencies or outsourced to private 
companies selected through a competitive bidding process. Wampler, Brian (2012) 
 
Participatory budgeting is a democratic innovation where citizens directly engage in making 
collective decisions about how to allocate public budgets, capital investment and grants. This 
approach includes a wide variety of mechanisms for public participation in the budgetary process, 
ranging from advanced consultations to specific types of direct democracy. Kotanidis (2024) 
 
Since its origin in Brazil in the late 1980s, governments across the globe have adopted this 
practice for a variety of reasons and in varying circumstances; some programs are 
centered at the city level, while others are decentralized to districts/wards or to spending 
by a particular city bureau or department.  
In most cases, participatory budgeting has been used opportunistically or strategically; 
that is, leadership in a district, ward, or other entity simply picks up the practice as a useful 
tool and implements it without any formal adoption step or authorization. (This is how it 
was first taken up in one Chicago ward in 2009, its first U.S. use.) In fewer cases, a 
participatory budgeting program is institutionalized in a municipal charter or by ordinance 
 
1 See Stacy et al. (2022) and Scaled Agile Framework (2023). 
2 The author’s use of the  verb “deliberate” here implies discussion and dialogue; most U.S. programs instead 
use voting by secret ballot. 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   10 
 
through a formal adoption step— a necessity when the city’s general fund is tapped for its 
use.  
A formal participatory budgeting program adds several steps to support decision-making 
by members of the community. The community must in some way: 
1. Identify and/or secure a source of funds to be allocated for community 
members to spend; 
2. Design a process through which residents submit suggestions for spending; 
3. Develop a structure for government and residents— in collaboration— to test 
these ideas for feasibility; 
4. Hold an election or other process by which residents select “winning projects” 
from among those that are viable; and 
5. Implement the winning projects that result from the residents’ binding spending 
decisions. 
A continuing or time-limited program that includes these formal steps is the most common 
incarnation of participatory budgeting around the world. In this report we refer to such a 
program as Participatory Budgeting, capitalized and abbreviated as “PB.” 
If a source of funds continues to be available, a “PB Cycle” of 
idea generation through implementation repeats, usually on 
a yearly or biennial schedule. (See Appendix B for detailed 
examples of PB Cycles from several cities.)  
When a municipality institutionalizes a continuing PB 
program— whether city-wide or at a district level— additional 
preparation and planning steps become necessary. 
Preparation for a sustained PB program is usually done in 
collaboration with community groups (New York City’s 
successful program engaged nearly 100 community groups) 
and includes: 
● Determining a reliable and ongoing source of funds and securing that funding,  
● Developing a detailed plan for initiating and sustaining the process, and  
● Reaching out to community members to educate them about PB. 
After the up-front planning and preparation, the municipality begins a repeated cycle of PB 
activities: idea generation, feasibility assessment, voting to select projects, and 
implementation. The type and scope of evaluation varies widely. Many programs simply 
seek affirmation that the program satisfies participants, while a few others secure 
independent third-party evaluations. 


Participatory Budgeting for Portland   11 
 
The Origins and Spread of Participatory Budgeting 
Beginnings in Brazil, 1989 
After a military dictatorship in Brazil was replaced by a democratic government in 1989, 
Participatory Budgeting was an initiative by the newly elected Workers’ Party to involve 
citizens directly in local budget decisions and showcase their governing approach. Their 
new tax policy produced a windfall of revenue, and PB spread rapidly across Brazil—
particularly in larger cities— reaching about 140 municipalities by 2004. Despite its initial 
success and international recognition, the use of PB has declined in Brazil since the mid-
2000s and its prominence has diminished considerably. Tighter local budgets, reduced 
investment capacity, and the eventual defeat of the Workers’ Party contributed to this 
decline. Recent changes in the country’s leadership have sparked hope for a potential 
revival. 3 
 
Worldwide spread 
The Participatory Budgeting World Atlas4 cites nearly 11,000 instances of PB use in 7,000 
locations around the world, a share of these by schools, commissions, or other non-
governmental institutions. (In the absence of a universal operational definition of PB, some 
question whether all these programs fit the models described in this report. 5  See 
Appendix A for a list of differences between how PB has developed internationally and how 
it is typically implemented in U.S. cities.) 
 
At least eight Latin American nations other than Brazil have adopted or mandated the use 
of PB. The African nations of Congo (DRC), Kenya, Mozambique, South Africa, and 
Tanzania are using PB, as are India and Indonesia in Asia. In Europe, Paris and Madrid have 
committed 100 million euros to be allocated through PB, and many other EU locations 
have active programs. Scotland and Wales in the UK have well-developed PB processes.
 6 
 
In the U.S. 
The first instance of PB in the U.S. occurred in Chicago's 49th Ward in 2009. Alderman Joe 
Moore responded to community demands for increased transparency and involvement by 
allocating $1.3 million of his discretionary funds to be spent by the residents of his ward. 
This experiment in Chicago attracted 1,427 voters (2.5% of the population of his ward) and 
generated significant interest among residents. Following Chicago's lead, several other 
U.S. cities began implementing participatory budgeting processes, including New York 
City, San Francisco, and several smaller cities. The Participatory Budgeting Project (PBP), a 
non-profit founded in New York by Josh Lerner to bring the PB experience of Brazil to the 
 
3 de Paiva Bezerra (2022).  
4 Dias (2019). 
5 Pateman (2012).  
6 Brian Wampler et al. (2017). 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   12 
 
U.S., played an active role in the early spread of PB in the U.S. and continues to be its most 
influential advocate. By 2024, PB was being used in over 100 U.S. cities and institutions.7 
 
Participatory Budgeting in Portland  
A Brief History and Overview 
Politicians, activists, and community groups first discussed the possibility of bringing 
participatory budgeting to Portland in the wake of the 2008 economic depression. One of 
the city’s first PB proposals came from the grassroots movement Occupy Portland, which 
drafted and circulated a “People’s Budget” that included PB. 
 
While major West Coast cities have piloted PB programs, so far only one Oregon state-
funded PB initiative aimed at East Portland youth has come to fruition. The following 
timeline lays out, with dates and “headlines,” some of the advances and setbacks that PB 
proponents have encountered over the past 15 years.    
 
Note: Much of this timeline is adapted from a detailed chronology compiled by 
Participatory Budgeting Oregon, an advocacy group. As much as possible, the committee 
has independently verified these events through published articles and other information 
sources.  
 
Participatory Budgeting in Portland: Dates and Headlines 
 
2009–17: Portland flirts with the idea of PB 
As the country slowly emerges from the economic depression of 2008, activists and 
policymakers around the U.S. begin talking about participatory budgeting. Sam Adams’s 
mayoral administration floats the idea of using PB with transportation projects, and in 
2016, Ted Wheeler mentions PB in his mayoral bid. In 2017, city Commissioner Amanda 
Fritz gathers support from fellow Portland City Council members to dedicate a small 
portion of Cannabis Tax revenue to a limited PB process. However, the proposal does not 
make it out of the initial approval stage. 
 
2018–20: A PB forum sparks interest 
In 2018, Participatory Budgeting Oregon and Healthy Democracy, two advocacy groups, 
hold a forum titled “Bringing Participatory Budgeting to the Portland Region” in East 
Portland. Politicians and community members alike attend the event, which is covered by 
local media outlets. Over the next several years, several supporters speak before the 
Portland City Council about the possible benefits of PB in our city. 
 
 
7 Tian (2013). 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   13 
 
2019–21: Two out of three PB proposals fail to advance 
Concrete proposals begin to emerge. In 2019, Metro voters approve a new Parks & Nature 
Bond that calls for funding $32 million worth of projects through PB, aimed at improved 
access, trail restoration, energy efficient lighting, and other projects. 
 
In the summer of 2020, the city council adopts a 
budget amendment, proposed by Commissioner Jo 
Ann Hardesty, to dedicate $1 million a year to 
participatory budgeting around services for 
Portlanders experiencing homelessness. In 
Hardesty’s proposal, houseless Portlanders would 
play an active role in proposing and voting for 
programs.  
 
Several months later, Mayor Wheeler secures an additional $1.5 million for Reimagine 
Oregon, a community advocacy group dedicated to racial equity, to use for participatory 
budgeting.  
 
Of these three programs, only the Metro Parks & Nature Bond proceeds to make full use of 
PB, with a sophisticated plan that leads to the approval of 15 projects in the fall of 2023. (A 
map of their PB cycle appears in Appendix B, and a brief summary of this program appears 
below.) The Portland city funds are later reabsorbed back into the budget. 
 
2021–23: PB for Youth Voice, Youth Vote  
State Senators Kayse Jama and Chris Gorsek, along with State Representative Ricki Ruiz, 
allocate $690,000 from Oregon’s share of the one-time American Rescue Plan Act’s (ARPA) 
COVID-19 recovery funds to the Youth Voice, Youth Vote Participatory Budgeting Project. 
The project recruits East Portland youth to propose and vote on $500,000 worth of 
projects, meeting in a series of assemblies or voting online. State and local governments 
decide not to fund the project for a second year. Reasons include the end of federal 
COVID-19 relief funds, competing priorities, and constraints on government budgets. See 
below for a more detailed description of Youth Voice, Youth Vote. 8 
 
2022–23: Portland considers adding PB to the City Charter 
From 2020 to 2022, an independent Charter Commission (20 volunteers selected by City 
Council) researches and proposes major reforms to Portland’s City Charter, which voters 
approve in November 2022. During phase II of the commission’s work, it is tasked with 
proposing a series of smaller charter amendments. 
 
 
8 Jacobson (2024). 
 
Three earlier PB proposals in Portland: 
• Metro’s Parks and Nature Bond 
(2019) 
• $1 million/year city budget 
amendment for services addressing 
homelessness (2020)
 
• Reimagine Oregon:  $1.5 million in 
city funds to address racial equity 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   14 
 
In June 2022, the commission announces it is considering adding a participatory budgeting 
amendment. Participatory Budgeting Oregon submits a proposal to the charter 
commission for an amendment that would permanently fund PB in the city charter. As 
worded:  
To further public engagement and democratic involvement in city spending, the City must 
create by ordinance a Participatory Budgeting Program open to all residents, consistent 
with the Oregon Local Budget Law. Annual funding for the Program must be no less than 
1% of the City’s General Fund discretionary ongoing resources, and the public’s funding 
allocation decisions must be binding. The Program must begin operating no later than July 
2026. 
 
Representatives from several community groups as well as Youth Voice, Youth Vote 
participants testify before the commission. However, the PB proposal does not garner 
enough support from commission members to add to the 2024 ballot, losing by just one 
vote. Mayor Wheeler and the Portland City Council subsequently decide not to take up the 
proposal. Concerns focused on the assertion that 90% of the city budget is already 
accounted for, and that the remaining 10%, though technically discretionary, is (according 
to the mayor’s proposed 2024 budget statement) “already committed to existing, ongoing 
work like police, fire, 911 emergency response services as well as daily operations of parks 
and recreation services.” 9 
 
2023–2024: A PB ballot initiative is proposed— then postponed 
In late 2023, Community Budgeting for All petitions to add an initiative to the November 
2024 ballot that essentially replicates its proposed PB charter amendment. A signature-
gathering campaign supported by an alliance of several advocacy groups launches in 
January 2024. However, in May 2024, the organization suspends its efforts and pledges to 
try again in 2026. 
 
2024–2025: The Government Transition Advisory Committee recommend exploring PB; 
New city council is divided on the issue 
In its final report (May 2024) The Government Transition Advisory Committee (GTAC) 
recommends that the city “explore participatory budgeting” among other reforms to the 
budgeting process. 10  A City Club poll of the members of the new city council after the fall 
2024 election shows the 12 members to be divided between strong support for PB and 
serious concerns about its adoption. 
      
  
 
9 Ibid. 
10 The Government Transition Advisory Committee (2024). 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   15 
 
Youth Voice, Youth Vote: A Recent Example of PB in Portland 
 
Youth Voice, Youth Vote, a local participatory budgeting project and the first in the state of 
Oregon, deserves special mention. Under the leadership of State Senators Jama and 
Gorsek and State Representative Ruiz, this program began in 2022. Sponsored by 
Participatory Budgeting Oregon (PBO), a local advocacy group, the project aimed to involve 
youth in making decisions about how and where to distribute federal COVID-19 relief 
funds.11 
 
Targeted for participation were youth ages 13–25 who “live, play, pray, or go to school” 
within a designated project area, which included East Portland, East Multnomah County, 
and portions of North Clackamas County, spanning seven school districts. Their task was 
to allocate $500,000 in American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds. 
 
The PB process was designed by a twelve-member, all-youth Steering Committee and 
aimed to engage at least 5,000 young people over two year-long PB cycles. Several state 
legislators committed ARPA funds to this effort. At the conclusion of the first cycle, around 
800 youth voted to fund five projects, each of which received $100K for implementation: 
● A job resource fair 
● A paid two-week program for youth artists 
● Paid internships for youth 
● Expansion of access to menstrual and hygiene products 
● Improved connections to rental and housing assistance 
The most recent published reports indicate that these projects are currently in the 
implementation phase.11 
 
Unlike recent proposals for city-wide PB in Portland, this project aimed at a specific 
population using a one-time source of funds. The project has so far failed to find a 
continuing source of funding, and the planned second cycle has apparently not taken 
place. Nevertheless, news reports cite testimony about the positive impact on 
engagement among the targeted groups. 12 
 
Metro’s Nature in Neighborhoods Community Choice Grants 
 
A 2019 Parks and Natural Areas bond measure for capital grants led to a “participatory 
process designed by a committee of community members in collaboration with Metro staff 
to facilitate a capital grant program for community-led project ideas.”
 13  Using PB, projects 
 
11 See Participatory Budgeting Oregon’s report on this program here. 
12 Jacobson (2024). 
13 Oregon Metro (2023). 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   16 
 
would be identified that support historically marginalized groups, protect water quality and 
habitat, build climate resilience, and enhance residents’ experience with nature in the 
community. The cost of such projects would range from $10,000 to $250,000 each and a 
total of $4 million would be available. 
 
The bond issue determined that the grants program would use a “participatory 
grantmaking” approach. This re-casts the basic processes of PB for use by philanthropists 
and other sources of grant funding as they ask the communities they serve to exercise 
decision-making power about funding. The basic steps in the PB cycle are used. (A detailed 
map of their PB cycle appears in Appendix B.) 
 
The first round in 2023 distributed $2 million in spending, directed toward Metro District 4. 
A second round, at the same funding level but aimed at District 2, will run from early 2025 
to early 2026. In late 2024, this innovative PB program received a Core Values Award from 
the International Association for Public Participation for its success in “putting community 
members in the lead to imagine, design, and choose parks and nature projects through a 
participatory process.” 14 
 
Pending Reforms of the Budgeting Process in Portland 
 
The year 2024 was a pivotal year in the restructuring of city government in Portland, 
because of recent charter revisions. The implementation of those reforms will play out over 
several years. While this committee was engaged in its research, the independent 
Government Transition Advisory Committee (GTAC)— after 18 months of work— completed 
and published its final recommendations concerning the upcoming transition, including a 
list of recommendations specifically aimed at budgeting processes and a look at PB.
15 
 
One recommended revision to the budgeting process was to: 
  
“Explore the potential of increasing community engagement via participatory 
budgeting.”
 
 
The other recommended reforms to the budget process include: 
 
● An earlier start for public input into budgeting and more diversified input methods 
● Increased open and honest communication with the public, with feedback loops 
● Communication tools to build public understanding of the budget process 
 
14 https://www.oregonmetro.gov/news/community-choice-grants-program-receives-award 
15 GTAC (2024). 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   17 
 
● A series of district-wide budget townhall meetings 
● Improved relationships with community organizations, with special attention to 
groups historically left out 
● Replacing existing advisory committees with service-area committees and 
considering a city-wide Community Budget Advisory Board 
● Centralizing community engagement re: budgeting within the City Administrator’s 
office 
● Implementing the findings of a third-party report from Equilibrium Collaborative LLC 
on transitioning to new budget process 
 
Summary 
 
Based on this background, the committee set out to discover: 
1. Where and how PB has been used, especially in U.S. cities, and to what degree it 
has met its stated goals;  
2. What variations and options are used in its applications;  
3. What claims are being made for its benefits; and  
4. What opposing arguments are frequently cited.  
Our objective summary of what we found is in the following section, “Findings.” After that 
we offer our interpretation and assessment of what we found under “Discussion/Analysis” 
and then present our Conclusions and final Recommendations. 
 
  

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   18 
 
Findings 
 
Our goal in this section of the report is to summarize, fairly and objectively, the results of 
our research into how PB is currently being used in the U.S. 
 
We studied a selection of U.S. cities that have implemented PB and compiled a list of 
variations and adaptations they made in their programs. We also sought out and 
documented the positive claims made about the impact of PB. To balance this data, we 
also delved into the most commonly cited limitations of the practice and noted the 
downsides and risks that have been reported.  
 
We have deferred our interpretation of these findings and our assessment of the evidence 
that lies behind them to the next section of this report, “Discussion/Analysis.” 
 
The status of PB in the U.S. 
The experience of selected U.S. municipalities 
Over the past two decades, roughly 100 U.S. cities and municipalities have used PB in a 
variety of ways and for a variety of reasons. We chose the following cities for analysis to 
study a legitimate cross-section of U.S. PB programs. Our initial interview list when we 
launched this study took advantage of a comprehensive and independent review by The 
Brennan Center in 2022. Our findings are drawn from the interviews we conducted (see 
Witness List, page 94), from publicly available sources, and from internet postings by 
these cities. 
 
● Chicago, IL 
● Durham, NC 
● Greensboro, NC 
● Hamilton, Ontario 
● Long Beach, CA 
● New York, NY (district level 
and city-wide) 
● Nashville TN 
● Providence, RI  
● San Francisco, CA 
 
● San Jose, CA 
● Seattle, WA 
● Toronto, Ontario 
● Vallejo, CA 
What we discovered about these municipalities’ experience with PB is summarized below. 
The name of each city is linked to online sources for each. 
 
  

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   19 
 
Sustained programs: 
 
These cities represent those that appear to have figured out how to start and then continue 
a productive PB program. Chicago and New York City are widely recognized for their 
sustained PB programs. In both cases, PB started at the district/ward level. In New York 
City, several years of district-level experience with PB led to an institutionalized city-wide 
program in 2018. Four other municipalities we studied have continuing district-level PB 
programs. 
 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS:  
First recorded use in the U.S. (2009) by a single alderman using funds previously 
allocated to him as discretionary. Continues as of 2024. Evaluated by the city 
against a set of key metrics. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation16 
Ward-level capital 
projects 
$1.5 million per 
ward 
2.6 million (city) 
60K (ward) 
1,300–1,500 2–2.5% 
Typical results: Street and transportation improvements, community spaces, tree planting, many others 
 
DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA:  
Initiated in 2018; the second cycle (2020–2021) focused on distributing federal 
funds in relief of COVID-19 through a grants program. Cycle 3 completion is 
underway. Third-party evaluation by local university. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
Divided across 
three wards 
equally 
$2.4 million (2018) 
$1 million (2021) 
$2.4 million (2023) 
290,000 10,000 (2018) 
12,196 (2023) 
3.5% 
4.2% 
Typical results: LGBTQ Youth Center, public art installations, Little League funding, projectors for schools 
 
LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA: 
Successful pilot projects in 2014–15 led to a city-wide program aimed at census 
outreach and language access services in 2019–20. The second cycle of a youth-
focused PB program is underway at this time. Data below apply to the initial pilots. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
District-level $300,000 50,000 2,700 5.4% 
Typical results: Language access services, census outreach efforts, a summer camp for youth, art 
programs 
 
NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK: 
Starting in 2011, some individual council members have each used PB to distribute 
$2 million in discretionary funds. By 2021, 33 of 51 districts were involved. In 2018 a 
 
16 Participation is either as reported by the city or calculated from available data. These should be considered 
estimates only. 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   20 
 
referendum mandated a city-wide PB program, which continues alongside the 
district-level programs. Notably, the city collaborates deeply with 80–100 
community partners in supporting PB. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
District 
City 
$2 million 
$5 million (2023) 
154,000 
8.3 million 
Varies 2% on average 
Typical results: Technology upgrades at schools, tree planting & sidewalk improvements, an outdoor adult 
fitness area, financial literacy classes, parenting education, and many more 
 
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA: 
Interest by the mayor as early as 2011 led to a first formal PB project in District 7 
(2013). Four other districts have used PB since. In 2022, a large-scale $4 million PB 
program addressed historic needs in the Tenderloin district. District-level PB 
programs continue. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
District-level $100,000 (2013) 
$4 million (2022) 
$800,000 (2023) 
71,000 (District 7) 1,300 (2022) 1.8% 
Typical results: Neighborhood beautification, disaster preparedness, and accessibility improvements 
 
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA: 
One district piloted PB in 2015–16 and others followed suit through 2020. PB was 
used to distribute COVID-19 relief funds in 2020, and increasing familiarity with the 
process has expanded PB use at the district level. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
District-level $100,000 (c. 2016) 
$250,000 (2024) 
80,000 (district) 500 in the initial 
pilot 
<1% 
Typical results: Public lighting, community art installations, and technology grants for local schools 
 
 
Struggling programs: 
 
The following cities, among others, have run up against problems or concerns that delayed 
or halted progress. These programs were expected to continue but did not or have done so 
sporadically. In Hamilton and Greensboro, PB programs are on hold. In Nashville and 
Seattle, the programs continue but have faced questions and delays. Vallejo’s initially 
exemplary program is still cited as a success story, but— possibly as a result of the intense 
scrutiny it has received— chronic concerns about conflict and lack of trust between 
elected officials and the PB program continue to be raised. 
 
GREENSBORO, NORTH CAROLINA: 
Begun in 2014 as a district-level program with modest funding. After three 
successful cycles the program was suspended by the city in the face of competing 
priorities and budgetary constraints. This left 20+ voter-approved projects 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   21 
 
unfunded. The program continues to be under review. Evaluation has been limited 
to participant feedback and internal assessments. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
Divided across the 
five city districts 
$500,000 287,000 1,100 (2016) 
1,200 (2017) 
4,000 (2020) 
0.4%–1,4% 
Typical results: Bus shelters and playground renovations, solar charging stations, crossing safety 
 
HAMILTON, ONTARIO: 
After a 2013 start-up, a second cycle ran into tensions between elected officials 
and the PB program. Officials asserted control and tampered with the process; 
several approved projects were never completed. The program was shelved after 
the second cycle. Current attempts to revive the program have yielded an 
innovative Budget Simulator Tool that allows residents to visualize the impact of 
trade-offs when working with limited city budgets. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
One of 15 districts; 
infrastructure 
$1 million 29,000 (ward) 500–1000 (cycle 1) 
1675 (cycle 2; may 
include 
participants other 
than voters) 
1.7%–3.4% 
5.7% 
Typical results: Trail access, solar-powered trash compactors, church hall kitchen equipment 
 
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE: 
In 2021–22, the mayor dedicated $2 million for PB in several neighborhoods. In late 
2022, the city committed to a city-wide PB program to distribute $10 million in 
federal COVID-19 relief funds. Winning projects were scheduled for implementation 
in 2024. The program is currently under review after expressed concerns about the 
total workload and the equitable distribution of funds. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
City-wide 
infrastructure 
$2–10 million 693,000 13,121 (2023) 1.8% 
Typical results: Park improvements, traffic calming measures, enhancements to library resources 
 
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON: 
In 2015 a PB program Youth Voice, Youth Choice aimed at engaging youth aged 11 
to 25. This program allocated $700,000 for projects proposed by young residents. 
Two years later PB was used to distribute $2 million for parks and street repair, and 
in 2018–19 a PB program distributed $3 million for infrastructure projects. Between 
2020 and 2024, plans developed to allocate nearly $30 million to social justice 
initiatives through PB; after some delays, projects were set to be approved by city 
council as this report is being written. While the Seattle program is successful by 
most measures, it has been afflicted with delays and concerns about costly and 
flawed execution. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   22 
 
City-wide one-time 
projects 
$700,000 (2015) 
$2 million (2017) 
$27 million (2023) 
750,000 6,500 (2019) <1% 
Typical results: Housing access, public safety enhancements, mental health support, and food equity 
VALLEJO, CALIFORNIA: 
In 2012, Vallejo became the first U.S. city to initiate a city-wide PB process, 
distributing a share of funds from a new one-percent income tax. The next two PB 
cycles allocated a total of $8.3 million. The eighth cycle is now underway. Studies of 
Vallejo’s experience reveal lingering tensions between entrenched political forces 
and direct public participation. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
City-wide non-
capital projects 
$3.2 million (2013) 135,000 3,600–5,000 3%–4% 
Typical results: Community gardens, small business grants, senior center improvements, potholes & 
street repair 
 
 
Special cases: 
Two locations we encountered offer examples of alternate uses of PB in special 
circumstances. Rhode Island adopted PB as a tool to allocate Medicaid funding. And 
Toronto has used PB from a very early date— possibly the first use in North America— to 
make spending decisions about housing initiatives. 
 
P
ROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND: 
A specialized use of PB (2022) to disburse $1.5 million in Medicaid funds to support 
improved health outcomes for residents. In collaboration with local health-oriented 
community organizations and evaluated by public health agencies. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
Two designated 
Health Equity 
Zones 
$1.4 million 80,000 (both 
zones) 
1200 1.5% 
Typical results: Renovated playground, outdoor gym, anti-stigma campaign 
 
TORONTO, ONTARIO: 
A pilot program in three wards (2015) started strong but participation declined in 
years two and three. For 15 years, starting in 2002, Toronto Community Housing 
used PB to finance improvements in housing but paused the program for re-
assessment in 2017. As of 2023, there has been a revival of participatory budgeting 
initiatives under various city councilors and some consideration of a city-wide 
program. 
Scope Funds available Population Voters Participation 
District/ward $150,000– 
$250,000 
2.8 million (city) 
110,000–120,000 
(wards) 
1700 (pilot) c. 1% 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   23 
 
Typical results: lighting improvements in parks, the construction of a bicycle locker, and accessibility 
improvements 
 
Other notable programs: 
The following cities have PB programs that intrigued the committee but did not warrant 
further study at this time. 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS: 
Boston was the first city to use PB with a focus on youth (2014–present), a trend that 
has been followed by Seattle (2015) and Portland (see Background for an outline of 
the 2022 Youth Voice, Youth Vote PB program). In mid-2024, the city initiated a city-
wide PB program that places an emphasis on drawing historically under-engaged 
residents into the budgeting process. Many PB programs cite equity as a goal; along 
with Seattle’s, Boston’s program appears to have an unusually strong commitment 
to this goal. The initiative was triggered by a 2021 ballot measure. 
 
G
RAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN: 
In Grand Rapids, an initial round of PB to distribute one-time COVID-19 relief funds 
evolved into a continuing district-level program. Making this transition successfully 
has been rare among U.S. cities. Our attention was drawn to the program’s 
unusually well-designed online presence (linked above) that could serve as a 
model. 
 
SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA: 
This program was one of only a few that secured a robust third-party evaluation of 
its initial experience with PB. The resulting 57-page report from 2023 provides a 
well-crafted critical history of this city’s use of PB and the lessons learned from 
their experience. (Link provided above.) 
 
 
 
  

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   24 
 
Variations in the use of PB 
 
We’ve taken the raw data obtained from our interviews with other cities and from 
published sources and used it to develop a list of variations in how PB is used around the 
U.S. Further details about the programs below can be found in Appendix D. These 
represent a table of alternatives that can be considered in any future proposal for PB use in 
Portland. 
 
Variations in the source of funds 
Sources are either one-time or continuing. Some sources pre-date a PB program; in other 
words, PB is a way to spend funds previously allocated. PB tends to use “discretionary” 
funds, although how that term is understood varies. 
 
Alternatives: 
● Special funding from government entities or some other major grant. Several 
programs in the U.S. began with COVID-19 relief funds. A few programs use Tax 
Increment Financing (TIF) or Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds.  
● Institutionalized funding carved-out from an existing source (e.g., the city’s annual 
discretionary budget). 
● Targeted funding already dedicated to some existing group of people (e.g., an 
underserved population); some specified public service (e.g., parks, schools, street 
repair); or some administrative entity (a political district/ward or geographic 
neighborhood).  
● Municipal bonds usually in the form of funding to support capital projects that are 
addressed through PB. 
 
Variations in how funds are directed 
Funds can be directed at PB use all across a municipality at one time. More commonly in 
the U.S., PB is used in more limited or targeted ways. The following four categories can 
combine or overlap, e.g., a parks program for one district, or city-wide spending on 
transportation for an under-served population. 
 
Alternatives: 
● PB is used to distribute funds across the municipality. 
● PB is used to allocate funds dedicated to one or more geographic divisions of the 
city, such as districts or neighborhoods. 
● PB is used in connection with a particular city service or bureau, such as parks, 
streets, or other infrastructure. 
● PB is used to benefit a selected population, such as a school/youth group or a 
disadvantaged population. 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   25 
 
 
Variations in the type and scope of outreach to community 
Educating the community about the program and engaging people in the process are 
critical steps that can be accomplished in several different ways, depending on the scope 
of the program. Again, these methods can combine or overlap. 
 
Alternatives: 
● The city government (or a subsidiary department/bureau) manages outreach and 
education. 
● District council offices provide most or all communications. 
● Existing community organizations with city affiliation, such as neighborhood 
associations and coalitions, are the source of education and outreach. 
● Community groups, non-profits, NGOs undertake outreach activities in 
collaboration with municipal government. 
● Outreach activities are delegated to advocacy groups or other qualified partners 
under contract. 
 
Variations in the type of projects supported 
Projects funded through PB are of two types: capital/infrastructure and programs/services, 
usually ongoing. Most PB programs limit projects to one or the other. There are a few PB 
programs that restrict projects to a very specific type, as the health improvement project in 
Rhode Island, the Metro Nature in Neighborhoods grant program, and the long-term 
housing improvement program in Toronto— all described above. 
 
Alternatives: 
● Capital-only projects that have up-front costs and long-term benefits and are also 
highly visible to residents. 
● Programmatic projects (starting a new service or establishing an ongoing resource 
for residents) that are popular, are less expensive to initiate, and have immediate 
benefits, but may require ongoing funding after a PB cycle is completed. 
 
Variations in who can propose ideas/projects and by what means 
This is typically a process that is open to all residents within the scope of the program. 
There are variations in how ideas are submitted:  
 
Alternatives: 
● Residents, via assemblies where facilitated brainstorming produces a list of 
candidate projects. The assembly includes orientation and education components 
that prepare participants to suggest viable projects. 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   26 
 
● Residents individually, through a submission process that may include an online 
portal. 
 
Variations in assessing project feasibility and estimating cost 
Not all ideas residents suggest are feasible. In most programs, city staff work with 
residents to appraise suggestions, determine their costs, and turn them into viable 
proposals. There are some attempts (in San Francisco’s program specifically) to reduce 
the administrative load on city staff by using experienced volunteers. 
 
Alternatives: 
● Current city staff in collaboration with residents. 
● Volunteers with city administrative experience, in collaboration with residents. 
 
Variations in who gets to vote on projects/proposals 
In most PB programs, voting is open to all residents, limited only by the scope of the 
program. Voting is not restricted to registered voters. Concerns about whether small 
numbers of self-selected voters truly represent their communities have led to methods for 
recruiting a representative sample of residents to vote. 
 
Alternatives: 
● All residents over a certain age (frequently 13–15) regardless of citizenship status or 
voter registration. 
● A selected representative (“stratified”) sample of these residents. 
 
Variations in voting and alternate decision methods 
Voting in the way most are familiar with— one person, one vote— is nearly universal. 
However, concerns about participation rates and representation are provoking discussion 
of other methods in the literature on direct democracy and civic engagement. The only 
program we have found that has experimented with alternate methods is in New York City, 
where a process called “sortition” has been used to create representative groups of 
voters. These alternate methods are largely untested. 
 
Alternatives: 
● Approval (top choice or choices by number of single votes). 
● Knapsack voting (total cost of projects chosen must not exceed a certain amount). 
● Ranked-choice voting (RCV). 
● “Token” voting: distribute a set number of tokens (votes) among the available 
options. 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   27 
 
● Deliberative decision-making methods other than straight voting, including sortition 
(a process similar to jury selection or representative selection by lottery) and 
decision by assemblies or other group meetings. 
Variations in how the selected projects are implemented 
Projects identified and selected through PB are generally implemented by city government 
the same as other city projects. The alternatives here are no different. Implementation 
must be overseen by the city in the interest of accountability. 
 
Alternatives: 
● Existing city bureaus or agencies implement projects. 
● Community organizations assume responsibility for implementation. 
● A competitive bidding process acquires the services of local contractors. 
 
  

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   28 
 
Claims for and against 
 
We have examined the claims made in support of PB and summarized them here. 
Following that, we list arguments against its unqualified use that have been independently 
studied, compiled, and reported by social scientists and others. The long history of PB 
provides a wealth of experiences, both positive and negative, for researchers to draw on. 
We assess the evidence behind these claims and the impact of the opposing arguments in 
the following section of this report. 
 
Claims made in support of PB 
 
In the following paragraphs we try to capture the appeal of what PB offers to do. Note that 
the quotations in this section capture only the positive claims for PB and do not reflect the 
committee’s conclusions, which will be presented in the following sections of this report. 
 
A statement from the website of the New York 
City PB program captures the primary claims 
in favor of the practice: direct democracy, 
transparency in budgeting, civic engagement 
and trust— especially on the part of 
historically under-engaged groups— and 
better municipal decision-making. 
 
1. PB claims to promote community 
engagement. 
 
PB claims to provide a more direct, more transparent, and more locally focused means for 
resident participation in budgeting than the advisory committees that are now in place. The 
reforms to Portland city government (three councilors to represent each of four geographic 
districts and a very different administrative structure) that are now underway have greater 
civic engagement as a key goal. So do the pending changes in the city’s budgeting 
processes.  
 
2. PB claims to involve under-engaged groups and promote equity. 
 
Importantly, the new deliberative processes [like PB] provide access to citizens who have not 
traditionally had access to political power. Traditionally excluded individuals, using an open 
deliberative format, develop new ideas and issues that are then placed on the policy and political 
agenda. Wampler (2012) 
 
Equity was a driving force behind the earliest use of PB in Brazil. Today, concrete equity 
goals for PB are more common around the world than they are in the U.S., although equity 
Participatory Budgeting is a democratic process in 
which community members directly decide how to 
spend part of a public budget. It’s grassroots 
democracy at its best. It helps make budget 
decisions clear and accessible. It gives real power 
to people who have never before been involved in 
the political process. And it results in better budget 
decisions—because who better knows the needs of 
our community than the people who live there? New 
York City Council (https://council.nyc.gov/pb/)
 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   29 
 
is nearly always mentioned in passing.  We note that equity goals have been a part of 
Portland’s expressed values over many years. PB claims to be a way to direct resources to 
under-engaged or neglected groups in a transparent and empowering way. 
 
3. PB claims to include more people in the budgeting process and in financial 
decision-making. 
 
Public engagement [including PB] involves convening diverse, representative groups of people to 
wrestle with information from a variety of viewpoints all to the end of making better, often more 
creative decisions. The Public Engagement Principles Project (PEP), Oregon 2009 
 
Currently, unless residents participate on a budget advisory committee or attend a public 
information session, their contact with budgeting processes is very limited. PB claims to 
be a way to reach typically under-engaged residents with information about city finances 
and an active role in decision-making.  
 
4. PB claims to build community and neighborhood cohesion. 
 
Members of a community working together to identify and select spending priorities builds 
collegiality and equity. As researcher Hollie Russon-Gilman points out, “[PB} can improve 
democratic conditions by renewing the civic spirit in a community [and by] strengthening 
ties between neighbors.” (Russon-Gilman, 2016) 
 
5. PB claims to offer a city an improved assessment of resident needs and offer 
residents more targeted results. 
 
From the perspective of government officials, participatory institutions help them to identify key 
problems, demands, and grievances among the population, especially the most organized sectors. 
Elected officials who seek to represent specific constituencies now have better means to assess 
their constituents' needs and demands. Government officials then can better target their policy 
priorities by marrying citizens' demands with expert opinion. It also allows government officials to 
identify the policy issues most important to community leaders, which is important for policy and 
political purposes. Wampler (2012) 
 
Everyone we’ve spoken with in city government wants better information about community 
needs. PB claims to be one way to achieve this. Residents want local problems solved and 
issues addressed. By involving them in spending decisions, PB claims to achieve these 
goals. 
 
6. PB claims to make budgeting processes more transparent. 
 
Participation can be very useful in educating the public about key trade-oﬀs and gaining valuable 
input from citizens about their priorities and preferences. Working with them to make these 
connections encourages citizens to participate in a more knowledgeable fashion rather than simply 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   30 
 
demand that their fire station or library remain open without tax increases or other service cuts. 
Ebdon (2006) 
 
One of the most explicit claims about PB programs is the nearly total transparency of the 
process. Ideas are solicited in a variety of ways and the results are shared publicly. Votes 
are taken on spending decisions, and the results are documented and widely distributed. 
PB is usually given the credit for completed projects. PB claims to prevent the perception 
that city budgeting processes are opaque and plagued by unexplained decisions. 
 
7. PB claims to increase trust in government. 
 
The hope invested by enthusiasts in PB derives from its simultaneous use of transparency, 
participation and accountability. Taken together, these three actions are believed to reduce the gap 
in trust and promote greater confidence in government through a transparent and participative 
budgeting process that can yield concrete results which citizens can see with their own eyes. 
Rumbel (2018) 
 
PB programs normally incorporate extensive outreach and education, in the hope that the 
community will begin to see more transparency, more engagement, and better results.  
Government officials, it is claimed, will find that residents make well-reasoned decisions 
about spending. PB claims to increase trust between residents and their municipal 
government through these activities. 
 
  

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   31 
 
Claims against the unqualified use of PB 
 
Some opposition to PB comes from those who 
think it’s a bad idea because of its costs, risks, 
and downsides. But PB has few entrenched 
opponents. 
 
In contrast, most commentators, observers, 
and researchers find the idea promising and 
do not oppose it across the board. But they 
point at limitations and undesirable 
consequences that have repeatedly arisen in 
its use and been well documented. Some 
support PB in general but object in good faith 
to specific cases, citing poor timing, 
insufficient resources, weak 
structures/processes, ineffective leadership, etc. 
 
Many might better be described as skeptics or cautious optimists rather than opponents: 
they testify that the benefits of PB are attractive and real but that only a very carefully 
designed program can avoid some predictable pitfalls. 
 
Objective studies in the popular press and in research reports have described these 
pitfalls in detail: PB has been mis-used, poorly administered, and undermined in various 
cases. While these failures can be avoided through due diligence, researchers point to 
certain features of typical PB programs that, even if well executed, can lead to its failure to 
meet the goals expressed for it. They report that PB has limitations that must be 
acknowledged and overcome if it is to be successful in the short or the long term.  
 
These arguments are reported here as we have found them and do not necessarily reflect 
the thinking of the committee. What we make of these claims is covered in the next section 
of this report. 
 
1. Affordability: Dedicated funding for PB may have negative impacts on fiscal 
management. 
 
Skeptics assert that budgeting is necessarily a zero-sum game: any spending in one place 
means less is available elsewhere. They point out that dedicating funds to PB, especially 
from an operating fund, means that less is available for other uses, some of them 
previously planned and expected. Even discretionary funds can be committed or spoken 
for. When budget cuts are called for, difficult decisions must be made; it is hard to justify 
insulating PB funding from these decisions. Doing so may be inconsistent with good 
budgeting practice. 
This rapid expansion [of PB] has yielded a mix of 
concerns across the PB world regarding the cost, 
effectiveness, and inclusivity of the programmes. 
While PB programmes targeted at the most 
impoverished may yield positive results, the cost 
of running a PB programme for the most 
disengaged and disadvantaged will be 
understandably high in order to provide
 outreach, 
support and education to participants to enable 
their engagement. . . .The very aims of PB in many 
instances are opaque, with implementation 
viewed as something necessary or positive 
without clear goals and desired outcomes from 
the programme beyond engaging citizens in 
decision-making. Rumbul (2018)
 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   32 
 
 
 
2. Electoral accountability may be compromised by PB. 
 
What if participation actually undermines representative democracy? None of our founding fathers 
thought direct democratic deliberation by the people was a good idea. . .Throughout its history direct 
deliberative democracy has been anathema to the traditional vision of the United States. Russon 
Gilman (2016).  
 
PB is said to violate the fundamental nature of our representative form of government by 
delegating spending authority from duly elected officials to unelected (and therefore 
unaccountable) self-selected panels of residents. We find frequent references to this 
claim, mostly from elected officials themselves. In the case of Cleveland a failed PB ballot 
measure led state legislators to propose a ban on any similar program.  
 
3. High overhead, complexity, and administrative burden may undermine the 
program. 
 
. . . Asking staff from city agencies or elected officials’ offices to run PB on top of their existing 
responsibilities is a mistake. . . The workload— community outreach, project development, 
coordination with city agencies, and so on—is just too great. . . Interviewees stressed the importance 
of allocating enough money to program administration. . . ‘That is probably the number one reason 
why other districts either didn’t start it or didn’t keep with it—because it is a tremendous amount of 
work’. [Erica Maybaum, San Francisco] Roth (2022) 
 
Administering a PB program can be expensive and can soak up a significant share of the 
available resources. Programs that begin with good support can evolve into unfunded 
mandates for city bureaus over time. In addition, low participation rates (see below) can 
call for unplanned increases in outreach at higher cost to increase participation and justify 
the program.  
 
4. Low participation and modest results may not justify the expense. 
 
Democratic innovations live and die by the extent to which voters’ voices 
are heard. But this requires representative participation. As a fledgling part of 
the democratic process, participatory budgeting appears to be particularly susceptible to poor 
participation. Fairstein, (2023) 
 
Participation rates— the number of people with an active role, including voting— in PB are 
typically low. (We take a close look at this finding and its implications later under 
Discussion/Analysis.) This observation is consistent across nearly all U.S. PB programs 
and has been cited as a critical limitation on PB effectiveness. Some question the overall 
impact on community engagement when so few people participate. In addition, whether 
these few participants represent the larger community is in question, as is whether they 
bring previously excluded groups into the process or just those with the time and resources 
to participate. Chronically low rates have also provoked questions about large 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   33 
 
expenditures for funding and administrative overhead that directly benefit only a small 
number of residents. Even when important local issues are resolved through PB spending, 
some question whether these results justify the high cost of securing the funds and 
administering the program. 
5. Limited participation in PB programs may not reflect the wishes of the entire 
community. 
 
In virtually all cases, the participatory budgeting design employs self-selection. . . anyone who 
wishes to show up to the meetings can do so. But self-selection is virtually guaranteed to generate 
unrepresentative samples. Those who show up must be especially motivated to do so. . . Motivated 
but unrepresentative groups . . . do not represent the population overall. Because the participants 
are unrepresentative, it is hard to see how the process gives “elected officials more accurate 
information about voter preferences” or gives “government technocrats more complete information 
about public wants and needs.” Fishkin (2018) 
 
Critics point out that low participation rates are likely evidence that those who vote may 
not accurately represent the make-up of the communities they represent. This may lead to 
projects that do not satisfy the real needs of the community but only of those who elected 
to vote. For the city, the accuracy of the data they may collect through PB programs may be 
suspect. 
 
6. PB may fail to take trade-offs and long-term decision-making into account. 
 
Many participatory budgeting participants are interested in securing short- to medium-term public 
works projects . . . [which] makes it more difficult to generate discussions on planning for the future 
of the city. . . The complexity of the issues involved requires that citizens have substantial technical 
and analytical skills to weigh different arguments. Participatory budgeting programs slowly build 
these skills, but it may take years for participants to develop a grasp of the complexities of the 
proposed solutions. Brian Wampler in Shah (2007) 
 
PB programs nearly always function in one- or 
two-year cycles, focus on immediate needs,  
and work with dependable funding. Some call 
attention to the fact that trade-offs are 
fundamental to budgeting; not addressing 
these is a misleading way to educate the 
public about budgeting. In addition, PB tends 
to focus on short-term needs and projects 
when the wise use of municipal resources 
should allow for long-term thinking. This may 
mean investing now for a later return or 
reserving resources for an expected (or 
unexpected) future requirement that cannot 
be recognized through a typical PB process. 
 
A note on “Participatory Spending” 
 
The term “participatory spending” was mentioned in 
at least one of our interviews. It refers to the fact that 
most PB programs delegate spending authority—and 
only spending authority—to residents. Any 
description of a generic “budgeting process” 
includes preliminary steps such as a historical 
review, revenue forecasting, a review of fixed 
expenses, etc., plus ongoing attention to trade-offs, 
contingency plans, and the like. Little of this is 
delegated to residents in a typical PB program; thus 
the suggestion that most programs are actually 
“participatory spending.”  
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   34 
 
7. A focus on concrete capital projects may actually undermine long-term civic 
engagement. 
 
[PB’s] focus on specific public works . . . diminishes the impact of the public learning or 
empowerment sessions. Many participants are less interested in learning about rights, the fiscal 
responsibility of the government, or broader social policies than they are in obtaining a small 
infrastructure project. This is the principal Catch-22 of participatory budgeting. . . After 
improvements are made, the community organization stops participating. . .. In such a case, public 
learning is low and participation is geared toward short-term and instrumental ends; participants are 
not engaged in public learning processes but focused on how they can secure specific resources for 
their community. Brian Wampler in Shah (2007) 
Projects resulting from PB processes tend to be capital expenditures, because these are 
easy to see and because they do not encumber future city budgets as obviously as would 
programs that require support year after year. Capital projects may, however, require 
maintenance and operating expenses. Observers also suggest that creating such brick-
and-mortar results can distract from the process goals related to education, to ongoing 
communication between the city and residents, and to flourishing community 
engagement.  
 
8. Unclear/conflicting goals and poor evaluation 
 
A glaring weakness . . . is that we have very little empirical knowledge about the goals and outcomes of 
participation. . . Unfortunately, it appears that the purpose of participation is seldom explicitly 
articulated, leading to varying expectations and little means for determining whether the results are 
acceptable or even exceed the costs of the activity. These diﬀering goals can color perceptions of the 
eﬀectiveness of participatory eﬀorts and aﬀect the determination of whether the outcomes are suﬃcient 
to justify them. Ebdon & Franklin (2006) 
 
The stated goals of PB programs tend to be general, abstract, unspecific, and lofty. In most 
cases there is no operational definition of a goal, which means that processes to measure 
it are obscured. As a result, few programs we have studied yield quantitative data about 
their effectiveness or their efficiency. Researchers who have studied PB extensively over 
the past 30 years repeatedly cite this as a problem. In addition, most cities evaluate their 
programs based on feedback surveys or other anecdotal methods. Nearly all of these show 
high levels of satisfaction with the experience of participating in a PB program— yet these 
programs’ actual impact on communities, comparisons of costs and benefits, and 
concrete assessments of effectiveness are rare.  
 
9. PB may qualify as a “policy bubble”  
 
Broadly, we are interested also in knowing if PB’s decline is the result of being part of a “policy 
bubble,” which occurs “when governments overinvest in a single policy instrument beyond its 
instrumental value in achieving a policy goal and that overinvestment is sustained over a relatively 
long period of time.” In other words, did governments adopt PB in the absence of clear evidence, 
which led to an overinvestment?  Wampler & Goldfrank (2022) 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   35 
 
Brian Wampler— perhaps the most experienced and widely published academic 
researcher on PB worldwide— raised the point above in a recent article. The concept of a 
policy bubble, similar in some ways to an economic bubble, was first described by Moshe 
Maor and others around 2003 as a public policy that persists over time despite a lack of 
concrete evidence of its benefits.  
 
Such a policy is sustained not by its actual impact or results but by positive feedback loops 
and enthusiasm. In simple terms, its costs are not justified by its results— but 
nevertheless, it persists. While we can’t resolve this question in our report, we believe 
these paragraphs suggest a rational critique of PB and a possible explanation for its 
popularity: 
. . . A policy bubble may emerge when certain individuals perceive opportunities to gain from public 
policy or to exploit it by rallying support for the policy, promoting word-of-mouth enthusiasm and 
widespread endorsement of the policy, heightening expectations for further policy, and increasing 
demand for this policy. In particular, they stand to gain more if they find other individuals who act 
similarly. If that is the case, an oversupply of this policy is likely to follow. If this process is sustained 
over an extended period of time, a policy bubble may emerge. A policy bubble may also emerge 
when people are emotionally attracted to certain aspects of the policy, especially when the 
emotional quality of the policy idea matches the mood of the population. Policy bubbles 
arise, therefore, by way of ‘mobilisation of enthusiasm’ when the policy enacted exceeds its ability to 
affect policy goals. 
 
. . . A policy bubble grows and matures when positive feedback processes enter into the fray. Bursts 
of public optimism, for example, may encourage trend-chasers to subscribe to the policy, further 
arousing individuals’ enthusiasm, which then leads to oversupply of the policy at hand. . . A policy 
bubble may mature as a result of over-optimism and overconfidence among policymakers and/or the 
general public, or as a result of imitation and human herding, as well as emotional contagion. . . 
However, since persistent policy payoffs cannot occur forever, elements of diminishing returns, at 
some point in time, are bound to replace positive feedback. Policy payoffs are likely to decline, and 
the bubble may gradually or abruptly burst. Maor (2014) 
 
In summary 
 
Our findings produced a picture of PB as a practice that is widespread and popular, that 
exists in many forms and encompasses a wide variety of options for its use. The claims 
frequently expressed about its benefits are appealing to many constituents and are notably 
consistent across the U.S.  
 
Still, the limitations of the practice are well-documented, especially by neutral researchers 
who study PB programs and their rise, spread, and occasional decline.  
 
In the next section of this report, we discuss the meaning of these findings and analyze the 
evidence behind them.  
 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   36 
 
Discussion/Analysis 
Introduction 
 
The proliferation of PB programs around the world since 1989 has generated a variety of 
models that have different goals, sources of funding, and methods of engaging 
communities. This variation is captured in our Findings, above, along with a summary of 
the most common claims for and against the use of PB. In the following pages, we 
summarize our interpretation of these findings. 
In general, we found that PB has enormous apparent appeal but is a more complex and 
challenging practice than we expected— as we document in this section of our report. 
Rather than analyze our findings one-by-one, we have selected topics for discussion that 
allow us to pull together our various findings into four important themes: 
A. The difficulty in identifying “successful” PB programs, owing to very different 
definitions of success among PB practitioners and a lack of evaluative data. 
 
B. What we learned from studying other cities’ PB experience, summarized in six key 
observations. 
 
C. Three high-level questions that arise from our findings, and an analysis of what 
answers are suggested by the evidence. These focus on: 
a. Civic engagement and participation, 
b. Delegating spending decisions to the community, and 
c. Affordability, funding, and overhead 
 
D. Potential unintended consequences that could be triggered if PB were to be 
adopted in Portland without careful planning, skilled execution, and respect for 
changing circumstances. 
 
A. What does “success” mean for a PB program? 
 
Because of the variation among PB programs, it’s hard to say what makes a particular 
program successful. PB has sometimes been seen as simply a tool to use when it is a good 
fit with the availability of both funding and administrative support, and when its use is 
believed to increase public participation in budgeting. (This opportunistic use is how PB 
first arose in the U.S.) It may start in a single district or may be used when one-time or 
windfall funds are available. In these cases, there may be no official adoption by a city; PB 
is basically “picked up and used.” If it meets the goals set for it, PB is generally considered 
to be a success in these cases, whether or not it continues. 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   37 
 
Some advocates will assert that a PB program is a success only if it continues 
indefinitely— which very few programs have done. Some programs continue to be 
sustained; this alone does not mean that they consistently meet their goals (such as 
community engagement, redistribution to historically underserved populations, etc.).  
 
One recommended step in the effort to sustain a program is to institutionalize it; that is, to 
formally adopt it by ordinance or initiative to make it a permanent part of city operations, 
one that is difficult to abandon. (In the case of New York City— widely cited as a successful 
program— several years of opportunistic use at the district level led to institutionalization 
only recently.) Institutionalization assures a program’s continuation but not its impact on 
other goals. 
 
Not all PB programs that are thought to be successful have been sustained, including 
those that first attracted world-wide attention in Brazil. Some cities’ programs have met 
their goals and have had a beginning, a middle, and an end, typically when funding runs 
out. Some ostensibly successful programs distributed federal COVID-19 relief funds using 
PB in ways that engaged and empowered residents. But when the funds ran out, the 
programs were suspended. 
 
In some cases, the end of a program has been 
anticipated from the beginning, owing to the 
temporary nature of the available funding. In 
others, programs have ended unexpectedly as 
circumstances change. In these cities, PB has 
proven its worth but remains “on the shelf” 
awaiting circumstances that favor another 
application. Accordingly, we hesitate to equate 
success with sustainability or the end of a 
program with its failure. Some independent 
researchers suggest that PB programs have a 
“natural life cycle” of a few years.  
 
This difficulty in defining success for PB programs has led us to avoid using the term and 
has largely prevented us from labeling programs as successful or not. Further, ambiguity in 
stated goals and a persistent lack of robust evaluation means that it is very challenging to 
determine whether PB programs are indeed successful. We were surprised to find that, 
despite its broad use, systematic and quantitative studies of PB are rare. In addition, it is 
inherently difficult to attribute a change in some aspect of society (e.g., civic engagement) 
to just a single cause like the adoption of PB, especially if it occurs amid multiple other 
changes in government and in the community.  
 
 
 
. . . [T]he duration of many PB programs is 
relatively short— roughly, 50% of PB 
programs are continued from one mayoral 
term to the next. Most of those that last 
longer than one term are then in continual 
existence for 2–3 mayoral terms (8–12 
years). This is enough time to begin 
changing basic state-society relationships. 
But these programs are hampered by 
relatively scarce resources . . .and 
municipal-wide participation rates of 4–8% 
of the population at best. Wampler & 
Goldfrank (2022)
 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   38 
 
B. Learning from other cities’ use of PB 
 
Our study of where and how PB has been used across the U.S. has led us to a few key 
generalizations: 
 
1. The use of PB is highly variable 
 
As our findings illustrate, the variability among PB 
programs in the U.S. is very high. While an earlier 
section of this report describes the most 
fundamental elements of a PB program, cities are 
handling the details in many ways. There is no single 
version or model for using PB successfully. Variation is common around several issues 
that are described in our findings and detailed in Appendix D. 
 
2. PB is an adaptable innovation 
 
This range of variation allows PB to be adapted for use in cities with very different needs, 
local histories and circumstances. It lends itself to experimentation, and the experience of 
other cities provides a rich resource for customization. Studies of PB emphasize the 
benefits of experimentation. A key takeaway from a Brennan Center report that we have 
relied on: “Don’t be afraid to experiment . . . The lesson is that PB offers ample room for 
experimentation, and a willingness to be flexible can be key to success” (Roth, 2022). Josh 
Lerner, the co-founder of The Participatory Budgeting Project, in a recent article warns 
against rigidity: 
 
When democratic practices grow, they often develop a standard methodology. . .These original 
formulas do not always work well, however, when the practices spread to different contexts or are 
combined with other methods. Too often, advocates . . . push back when other activists . . . try to 
adapt or adjust the practices. If the changes end up undermining democracy, this resistance may be 
appropriate. However, if the new formulas enable more democracy, even if it does not resemble the 
original version, excess rigidity can hold back progress.” Lerner (2024) 
 
3. Few programs achieve long-term sustainability 
 
Our examination of a range of cities shows that sustaining a PB program over time is a 
challenge in most cities. Programs can decline for several reasons: 
● City staff lack the resources to manage PB outreach and implementation. 
● Early cycles capture “low-hanging fruit” and enthusiasm wanes. 
● One-time or dedicated funding dries up and is not replaced. 
● Small programs produce small results that reduce motivation to continue. 
● Participation is too low to create large-scale interest in continuing. 
There is substantial variety in the use 
of participatory budgeting, within and 
across countries. There is not a “one-
size-fits-all” approach with this 
process. It is used sometimes solely 
for capital projects, while in other 
cases it allocates more broadly. 
Participant selection methods are 
diverse, as are the steps in the 
process itself. Rudin & Ebdon (2020) 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   39 
 
● Engagement is captured by special interests or by “the usual suspects” and 
historically under-engaged groups stay that way. 
● Political changes undermine the government's interest in continuing the program, 
or program “champions” leave the scene. 
 
4. Models for what has been proposed in Portland are rare 
 
Notably, we have found only two other active or proposed PB programs that resemble 
recent proposals (by the charter commission and then in a citizen initiative) in Portland, 
committing a percentage of the general fund to an ongoing PB program in the city charter. 
One is in New York City, where such a city-wide program was implemented after many 
years of learning from district-level PB. The other was in Cleveland, where a similar citizen 
initiative was defeated soundly by voters in late 2023.  
 
5. Overhead and administrative burden are high 
 
A consistent finding is the reported high cost of administering a PB program, especially 
city-wide. Expenses include: 
● Costs for soliciting funding ideas, either in hosting citizen assemblies or providing 
online tools that make it easy to make suggestions. 
● Providing outreach and education to residents— a critical success factor in boosting 
participation. 
● Administering a process for vetting spending ideas for feasibility. 
● Running a voting process, which typically requires both an online platform and 
providing access to the ballot by residents uncomfortable with technology. 
● After a PB cycle is completed, there may be ongoing expenses related to 
maintenance or other support for implemented projects and for ongoing evaluation 
of the effectiveness of the program; these are in effect unfunded mandates for the 
city. 
Nailing down specific figures for this issue is difficult owing to differences in how various 
cities support a program
17. Cities in which existing departments assume the 
responsibilities report fewer incremental expenditures than those who outsource or create 
new bureaus to oversee the program. Estimates range from 1% to 20% or more of the 
allocation to PB. Vallejo CA committed 15% to administrative support; an early version of 
the plan in Seattle allocated 28%. The cost of administration either encumbers existing city 
resources and redirects them toward the PB program, creating an opportunity cost for the 
city, or some portion of the funds residents hope to spend are reserved instead for 
administration. 
 
17 The Participatory Budgeting Project, an advocacy group, suggests that small cities (<200K residents) 
budget $1/resident/year for administration of a city-wide program, acknowledging that economies of scale 
will bring the per-resident cost down for larger cities. 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   40 
 
 
 
6. Participation is low compared to electoral participation 
 
Residents participate when they suggest projects to fund and then, later on, vote (or 
deliberate in some other way) to select projects to implement. Typical participation rates in 
PB projects are 5% or fewer of eligible voters. This finding is remarkably consistent across 
programs in the U.S. PB offers the potential to engage the public in budgeting and spending 
decisions, but the number of people actually involved is low, even compared to typical 
municipal elections. The National Civic League has found that municipal elections across 
the U.S. draw three to five times as many voters, by percentage of those eligible.18  
 
 
  
 
18 “Increasing Voter Turnout in Local Elections.” National Civic Review. V.109, N.1, Spring 2020. The National 
Civic League. 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   41 
 
C. Three critical issues: what does the evidence suggest? 
 
Looking at all our findings and at the background information on PB led us to three 
questions that sum up what we think are the most important issues for Portland. These 
questions, in one form or another, arose repeatedly in our witness interviews, in our 
literature searches, and in our own discussions. In general, we think these are challenging 
questions, without easy answers. 
 
1. Civic engagement & participation:  
Can PB help meet Portland’s need for greater engagement by the community in budgeting 
processes? 
 
We found universal support for increased engagement in the budgeting and spending 
practices of the city. From inside government, we heard clear expressions of this need. 
Officials would like to have better access to the thoughts and ideas of residents about their 
true priorities and about the impact of budgeting and spending decisions. While we did not 
interview many residents, the Charter Commission did, in partnership with the Coalition of 
Communities of Color (CCC) and seven local community-based organizations dedicated 
to culturally relevant engagement and reducing barriers to participation. These interviews 
underlined the need with extensive data to support it. (See, for example, the reports on 
Community Listening Sessions.) 
 
We found no evidence of a desire to keep budgeting processes and decision-making 
behind closed doors. A look at the goals of Portland’s charter reforms and the re-
organization of city government shows civic engagement to be near the top of the list. And 
Portland has a unique history in this area, having once been singled out as a model city for 
engagement, largely due to the innovative use of neighborhood associations.  
 
In our study we found evidence that: (1) What was once working well is not as effective or 
respected today, and (2) There is a strong desire to re-invigorate civic engagement in 
Portland and share the resulting benefits. Portland also has experience with a wide variety 
of civic engagement projects and practices that likely bear on the use of PB.
 19 
 
The potential of PB:  
 
 
19 These include the history of the neighborhood associations, the 2005 Community Connect initiative, the 
Citywide Equitable Engagement Cohort of the 2010s, the evolution of the Office of Community and Civic Life, 
the work of the Diversity and Civic Leadership Committee (DCLC), and the current Portland Engagement 
Project. For a review of Portland’s rich history in this area before 2009 see Alarcon de Morris & Leistner 
(2009). 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   42 
 
PB is well regarded internationally as a civic-engagement strategy. Engagement and 
participation by residents in the budgeting practices of a city basically defines participatory 
budgeting. This benefit is one of only two that characterize every single world-wide 
application of PB, the other being more targeted and relevant spending on local needs as 
determined by residents themselves. 
 
We focus here on PB in municipal budgeting, the most 
common among many variations. In this type of PB 
cycle, the public is directly involved in generating 
ideas for projects, working with government to test 
these ideas for feasibility, and then selecting the 
“winning” projects.  
 
Our analysis: 
 
Concrete evidence for civic engagement could be looked for in: 
● The frequency and diversity of civic activities undertaken in a community,  
● The public’s level of knowledge about local and national issues,  
● The extent to which residents are directly involved in decision-making,  
● The impact of these decisions on improvements, and  
● The degree of collaboration among residents in addressing public concerns. 
 
PB is claimed to improve the depth of involvement of those who participate, their 
satisfaction with that involvement, the degree to which their understanding of municipal 
budgeting improves, and their sustained interest in further participation in civic life. 
 
Evidence for whether these qualitative benefits are achieved with PB is almost entirely 
anecdotal and in most cities is based on subjective measures such as polls and 
satisfaction surveys. In a 2018 post The Participatory Budgeting Project recommends 
surveys and polls as the primary method of evaluation (See “How to make evaluations 
meaningful and awesome” on the Project’s website.) These show high levels of 
satisfaction with residents’ participation in PB.  
 
In the words of Hollie Russon-Gilman, one of the most widely cited independent 
researchers on PB, “While the material outputs of participatory budgeting are modest thus 
far in the United States, I argue that its immaterial ‘civic benefits’ are substantial. . . [Yet] 
these civic rewards can be intangible and difficult to quantify.” (Russon Gilman, 2016) 
 
This difficulty in finding concrete evidence for improved civic engagement is widely cited. 
Here is testimony from a recent study: 
 
[T]he outcomes of participatory budgeting can vary and are often unclear . . .  educating citizens, 
increased government accountability and transparency, social equity, and enhanced civil society 
Enhancing civic participation. . . in 
political processes is . . . central to 
restoring trust in the system. The 
reform that does this more directly 
than perhaps any other is 
Participatory Budgeting (PB) . . . 
(Roth, 2022)
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   43 
 
engagement. . . However, we know little about the connection between goals and actual results of 
PB. In addition, outcomes can be difficult to measure, and there may be unexpected 
consequences . . . Rubin & Ebdon (2020)  
 
There are examples from several programs that the aims of PB regarding civic engagement 
are not always met. Russon Gilman (2016) quotes three participants she interviewed: 
 
“’I joined PB to change our democracy—not to work on toilets and trees.’ These are the remarks a budget 
delegate uttered after the project on which she had spent the last several months working failed to be 
voted on.” 
 
“’PB will die of its own weight based on the sheer amount of meetings.’ District committee member and 
budget delegate” 
 
“I brought a few friends to an initial neighborhood assembly. They signed up to be budget delegates but 
stopped coming after the first meeting. They wanted to participate but had to take care of their children.”  
 
We find that the evidence— perhaps better characterized as testimony— for high levels of 
engagement from PB is broad but shallow. While many participants clearly enjoy and 
benefit from the experience, it is difficult to know whether these effects are ephemeral or 
long-lasting, much less whether they justify the costs of implementing a PB program.  
 
“. . . The purpose of participation is seldom explicitly articulated, leading to varying expectations and little 
means for determining whether the results are acceptable or even exceed the costs of the activity. These 
diﬀering goals can color perceptions of the eﬀectiveness of participatory eﬀorts and aﬀect the 
determination of whether the outcomes are suﬃcient to justify them.” Ebdon & Franklin (2006) 
 
Some observers have suggested that the growth of PB programs across the U.S. may be 
driven by positive feedback loops and “bandwagon effects” rather than sound evidence of 
its benefits 
 
The Participatory Budgeting Project, the most widely used source for PB advocacy and 
project support, reports that the percentage of residents who vote for projects rarely 
exceeds five percent. Accordingly, the Project recommends this rate as a target for cities 
and claims that it represents a “successful” response rate.  
 
Our compiled city-by-city data shows that actual rates most often fall below five percent, 
frequently far below. Rates of one to two percent were typical in the cities we studied. (A 
calculation of rates from a Wikipedia article documenting 120 PB elections world-wide 
yielded an average participation rate of 6%, with a low of 0.8% to a high of 20%. One-fourth 
of these elections had participation rates below 2%.) 
 
Taking five percent as an optimistic rate of participation for PB in U.S. cities means that 
communities that use PB for municipal spending decisions rely on one in twenty residents 
or fewer for these decisions. As noted earlier, typical turnout in municipal/local elections 
ranges from 15% to 27% of registered voters according to the National Civic League (2020 
data).  

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   44 
 
 
As for sustained impact on participants’ subsequent engagement in civic life from their 
participation in PB, only one study we have found has produced reliable quantitative data: 
in New York, the percentage of registered voters who were “likely to vote” in municipal 
elections increased by 7% after successful PB cycles. (A description of this study is 
available here.) 
Summing up: 
 
Some cities around the U.S. and around the world have used PB as the opening salvo in a 
civic engagement campaign. In these cities, it appears that civic engagement was not 
being addressed directly or effectively until PB came along. PB in a sense filled an empty 
niche. This is not the case in Portland, where civic engagement has been under active 
study, with repeated initiatives, over many years. (See, for example, the current Portland 
Engagement Project [PEP]) 
 
Despite the potential of PB for increasing community engagement in Portland, our findings 
clearly show that programs in some comparable cities have declined or failed. In a few 
cases, the failures led to an apparent overall decline in civic engagement out of 
disappointment with the process, the results or both. The causes of these failures have 
been studied carefully, and a summary of common causes can be found in Appendix C.  
 
Examining the evidence leads us to believe that 
PB does indeed engage individual participants, 
sometimes very deeply, and that participants 
in small numbers do indeed profit from the 
“civic benefits” promised by PB. This is not a 
trivial result, especially if the residents who are 
engaged have historically been under-engaged 
in or even excluded from civic life. And some 
level of participation is better than none. 
 
On the other hand, the evidence is strong that the penetration of a PB program— its 
success in directly involving a large proportion of the residents of a community— is 
extremely limited. As a result, the overall impact of a typical city-wide PB program on civic 
engagement throughout a city is not well supported by the available evidence. The lack of 
evidence is masked, we believe, by the enthusiasm expressed by those who do participate 
and by the well-designed and effective promotional efforts by PB advocates. 
 
Methods for increasing participation beyond what is typical will require creativity and 
resources. If participation rates cannot be increased, then it may be possible to assure 
that even small numbers of resident participants represent their communities more 
accurately. Representatives of the New York City PB program told us about their use of 
Even if PB voters represent a limited sampling of 
citizens, nonetheless PB amounts to more citizen 
involvement in budgetary decisions than the prior 
procedure without PB. . . Many of the critiques of 
voting in PB can also be applied to voting for city 
council members and to other elections in the 
United States. . . [T]he voting rate for some city 
council elections, especially special elections, 
can at times be comparable to voting rates in PB. 
Russon Gilman (2016)
 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   45 
 
“sortition”—  a method much like that used to 
select juries— to create more representative 
participation.  
 
A Portland PB program may play a role in 
enhancing community engagement, but it is 
not likely to be sufficient on its own. A PB 
program supported by and integrated with 
other innovative engagement practices may 
add value. 
 
2. Delegating spending decisions to the community:  
 
Will PB identify initiatives that are important to residents but not currently being funded? 
 
In addition to building community engagement, the second most frequently cited goal of 
PB is to help city government assess the needs of residents more accurately, with direct 
input from the community that goes beyond advisory groups and polls. The desire for 
better needs-assessment is universally acknowledged by the Portland city government 
leaders and employees we have spoken with. Advisory groups and other means of 
gathering input are leaving some local needs unmet, as acknowledged by the recent 
research used to support the changes to the city’s budgeting process that are now 
underway. (See “Budget and Finance Staffing and Budget Process Transition Report” 
[2024].) 
 
The potential of PB:  
 
One of the essential elements of a PB program is soliciting spending priorities directly from 
residents, focusing on immediate needs in their neighborhoods. This creates a new 
channel for informing the city’s leadership about needs that may not have been evident 
through traditional communications channels. 
 
Recognizing these unmet needs and then working with residents to develop feasible 
proposals helps defuse the frustration that erupts when a resident expresses a need and 
someone in government reports, simply, that it can’t be met. This collaborative process is 
fundamental to PB programs. Its transparency also has the effect of enhancing trust 
between residents and their government. 
 
If a well-designed PB program successfully implements the projects selected through PB, 
resident satisfaction can rise. PB offers a way to solve problems that have festered or been 
ignored. For residents, this is sometimes the most compelling outcome of a PB program: 
something got fixed. 
Although PB holds promise for increasing 
civic engagement, it is not a replacement for 
broader outreach and equity initiatives. PB 
alone will not bring about equity in a 
community, nor is it a panacea for a 
community’s problems. But, with careful 
planning and intensive outreach, PB can bring 
more voices into municipal decisions. Stacy 
(2022)
 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   46 
 
 
Our analysis: 
 
Studies of PB programs across the world offer support for their effectiveness in meeting 
real needs, with reservations. Several points are frequently made and are generally 
supported by the evidence: 
● A few researchers report— without attribution— that some in government do not believe 
the average resident is up to the challenge. The evidence says otherwise. 
The findings show that ordinary citizens, given some information and time for discussion in 
groups of diverse opinions, are quite capable of understanding complex, and sometimes 
technical, issues and reaching pertinent conclusions about significant public matters. . . These 
empirical findings provide a valuable counterweight to the poor opinion of ordinary citizens found 
in much political science, and to the frequently heard view that many, perhaps even most, 
matters of public policy are best left to, or must be left to experts. Pateman (2012) 
 
● PB gives city governments more immediate “grass-roots” information about perceived 
needs than any other method of public involvement. When residents make spending 
decisions themselves, this provides valid and reliable data about their preferences and 
immediate needs. 
[PB] helps make budget decisions clear and accessible. It gives real power to people who 
have never before been involved in the political process. And it results in better budget 
decisions—because who better knows the needs of our community than the people  who live 
there?            Davidson (2018) 
 
● Cities that have been satisfied with their PB programs cite healthy collaboration 
between government and residents during the process, and researchers commonly 
cite the need for mutual trust and respect.  
While increased transparency and accountability are also open government goals, the 
involvement of citizens is not simply a one-way street, in which government pulls back the 
curtain and allows citizens to more closely scrutinize its doings. Rather, an innovative 
government calls on its citizens to participate in improving governance itself. Young (2013)
 
 
● Chronically low participation rates in PB programs cast doubt on whether the results of 
a PB vote actually represent the true preferences of a community— as discussed earlier 
in this section. (See “Limited participation in PB programs may not reflect the wishes of 
the entire community” in our Findings.) 
 
  

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   47 
 
Summing up: 
 
It is difficult to predict the degree to which spending decisions made by residents through 
PB will be different from or “better than” those made through existing budgeting 
processes— until this is tested. Hypothetically, PB can provide more immediate and 
ground-level data than current methods of engagement.  
 
Testimony from other cities supports the ability of residents to make responsible spending 
decisions if they are given the relevant information and the means to participate 
effectively. Representatives of Portland city government have told us they want better 
information and guidance from residents. Other cities report that issues raised through PB 
might otherwise have escaped notice. 
 
However, the validity of the data about needs gathered through PB is affected by low rates 
of participation, making it difficult to confirm that what participants vote for represents a 
consensus in their community. 
 
Existing tools like the Portland Insights Survey, Neighborhood Demographic Profiles, the 
Portland Data Map, the parks bureau’s Community Needs Survey, and projects 
administered by local universities could be used to give preference to historically 
disadvantaged areas. There are many examples in the PB literature of cities using PB as a 
re-distribution tool, sometimes to correct historic inequities. Lessons can be learned from 
them. 
 
Treating the question posed at the beginning of this section as a hypothesis for testing 
would provide evidence of whether Portland would benefit from PB in this way. 
 
3. Affordability, funding, and overhead:  
 
Can Portland afford to fund and administer a PB program at this time? 
 
There are two related, but distinct, affordability questions our study has focused on:  
(1) The funding available to be allocated through PB, and  
(2) The administrative costs— the overhead— of administering a PB program.  
 
Whether Portland can afford a PB program is a volatile question, especially when news 
reports (while this report is being compiled in late 2024 and early 2025) forecast significant 
cuts to the city budget over the coming months. 
 
As we described in our Findings, most PB programs have taken advantage of funding that is 
already allocated in the form of a federal grant— many programs distributed COVID-19-
relief funds— or some other pre-existing source of discretionary funding. In Chicago and 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   48 
 
New York City, long-standing practices for allocating funds for the use of city councilors or 
ward leaders were in place before PB was used to spend them. In these cases, some have 
suggested that PB is actually “participatory spending.” 
 
The second issue related to affordability is the incremental cost of administration. The 
activities that take place within a PB program are beyond the usual practices of city 
agencies: special assemblies, data collection, recruitment of participants, outreach and 
education, operating a voting process, and coordination of a year(s)-long program. The 
scope of this administrative load varies but usually includes the time of personnel 
assigned to the project plus expenses for meetings, communications, and active support. 
 
The potential of PB:  
 
The claim in favor of PB regarding affordability is that public funds will be spent in some 
way, and that PB is a different and better method for deciding how. Where there are 
existing sources of funding, PB claims to offer a more directly democratic way of making 
decisions that would otherwise be made by government agencies and officials. Some of 
the most impactful decisions, for residents, that are made by governments are in the 
practice of budgeting and spending. Therefore, the claim goes, it only makes sense to 
delegate spending authority— for a very small portion of the city’s discretionary funding— to 
residents who have a more immediate understanding of their needs and an opportunity to 
exercise their judgement directly in a political process. 
 
As discussed earlier, sustaining a PB program over time— a frequently cited but debatable 
characteristic of a “successful” PB program— requires a reliable source of funds that are 
not subject to re-allocation for some other purpose. Proposals to dedicate a percentage of 
some city fund as a permanent source for PB are aimed at institutionalizing a PB program. 
To support this idea, one need only look at several U.S. PB programs that have been 
suspended under pressures on the budget or when another source of funding ran out or 
expired. If one presupposes that only sustained programs are successful, it’s possible to 
ignore the possibility that suspending a program was appropriate. 
 
Cities have assumed the burden of administrative support in many ways. In some cases, 
existing city departments and/or employees can be enlisted for support. Some cities have 
engaged partners among community organizations and their volunteers. Some have 
delegated administrative tasks to contractors. 
 
Our analysis: 
 
While it is undeniable that city funds will be spent in one way or another, dedicating a 
percentage of these funds to a PB project reduces flexibility and responsiveness in the 
budgeting process.  
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   49 
 
Essential to good budgeting is understanding and responding to trade-offs and zero-sum 
decision-making across a wide range of priorities and needs. With such a PB project in 
place, the amount of discretionary funding available is divided into two parts, one that city 
government can work with, and one that it cannot. No matter how small a percentage the 
latter represents, it is a significant amount of money in a city Portland’s size. With a PB 
program in place, those funds will be unavailable for more strategic purposes.  
 
Also, PB funding in yearly or biennial cycles favors 
short-term spending rather than long-term 
planning and may create an inaccurate picture of 
the complexity of municipal budgeting and mask 
the necessity of trade-offs among spending 
priorities. 
 
As we reported earlier, funding a city-wide PB 
program through a charter change or initiative in 
this way is rare in the U.S. Alternatives are 
common. In some cities, funding for PB is itself discretionary and subject to yearly review 
like every other spending priority. These cities accept the risk that PB funding may 
eventually be eliminated— as is true for any other discretionary budget item.  
 
When it comes to the administrative burden of operating a long-term PB program, we 
encountered consistent testimony about high costs. A significant portion of the available 
funds must be dedicated to administration and ongoing support. Without careful planning, 
some support activities can grow into unfunded mandates for city bureaus. Relatively high 
administrative expenses appear to be unavoidable, although there may be ways to limit 
them. And there appears to be a direct positive correlation between the expense of 
outreach/education activities and the level of participation— involving more people costs 
more. 
 
Instituting a PB program that captures a portion 
of the general fund, that privileges PB above 
most other priorities, and that requires hefty new 
expenditures for administration creates 
unnecessary risks, especially when the city 
budget is under such pressure. The intention— to 
protect PB from the decline or collapse of its 
funding— is understandable. But it has the effect 
of giving PB an unusually privileged position in 
the budget.  
 
The evidence from other cities supports a full public debate among the residents’ duly 
elected representatives, in our case those who are part of our new government structure. 
Many participatory budgeting participants are 
interested in securing short- to medium-term 
public works projects. The focus on specific 
public works makes it more difficult to generate 
discussions on planning for the future of the 
city. . .The complexity of the issues involved 
requires that citizens have substantial technical 
and analytical skills to weigh different 
arguments. . . It may take years for participants to 
develop a grasp of the complexities of the 
proposed solutions. Brian Wampler in Shah 
 
 
. . . [C]urrent conditions present an opportunity for 
PB to evolve so that citizens can have input into 
decisions regarding budget cuts as well as input into 
budget allocation decisions. Other forms of citizen 
participation have been used in the U.S. when 
budgets had to be cut such as surveys . . . and 
committees of citizens with specific budget-related 
experience, e.g., bankers . . . However, to our 
knowledge, PB has not been used to solicit citizen 
input into budget cutback decisions. Now is the time 
to consider how to do this. Rubin & Ebdon (2020)
 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   50 
 
They can delegate spending authority to residents through PB, but the ultimate 
accountability for the city budget resides with them, as it should.  
 
There may be applications for PB in activities other than spending money that is in short 
supply. At least one observer notes that the true involvement of residents in municipal 
budgeting decisions would require them to confront shortages as well as spending. This is 
an untapped use of participation in budgeting that could build engagement and trust even 
when funds are not available: 
 
Summing up: 
 
When there is deep disagreement about affordability, a PB project can only create or 
increase polarization in our community.  Using PB processes to spend funds that are 
already allocated could reduce the overall cost of an initiative, if administrative costs can 
be accommodated. Making PB affordable in Portland in the near future would require 
creativity, a deep understanding of what’s been learned elsewhere, a broad consensus 
among residents and government, and committed leadership. All of these may be in short 
supply during the demanding transition that is just beginning. 
 
 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   51 
 
D. Potential unintended consequences 
 
What risks might be encountered that could derail a PB program here, and can they be 
reduced or eliminated? 
 
The long track record of PB around the world gives Portland a lot to draw on in considering 
its own prospects. We were charged with attending to the risks and downsides that might 
result from an unwise or poorly planned PB implementation. Many are mentioned above. 
Here we summarize and highlight the most compelling examples. 
 
1. Lack of consensus about PB within Portland city government risks 
unnecessary competition and tension. 
 
The new city government creates new relationships among leaders, representatives, 
and bureaus— relationships that have yet to be built and stress-tested. If there is not a 
consensus among these agents about the affordability or use of PB, unnecessary 
tension, frustration, and conflict will follow the adoption of a PB program. City Club’s 
very recent poll of council candidates, for example, shows that no such consensus now 
exists within that important group. 
 
2. Stresses on the budget and the budgeting process risk generating 
increased acrimony. 
 
Budgeting in particular promises to be a challenge for the new council and the city 
leadership, given pressures on the budget in the midst of reforms to the process.  
Trade-offs and difficult decisions, with clear winners and losers, are likely. Developing 
and supporting a PB process that requires its own funding, plus incremental 
administrative costs, in the middle of this highly-charged environment is more likely to 
create and sustain animosity than collegiality at this time.  
 
3. The timing of a city-wide PB adoption during the early phases of our city’s 
government restructuring risks distracting leaders and representatives 
from critical tasks. 
 
Many have told us that the current government re-structuring project is expected to be 
all-consuming for those involved. If a large PB project becomes another priority, on top 
of those the new leaders are already wrestling with, failure somewhere along the line 
can be expected. 

Participatory Budgeting for Portland   52 
 
4. Too close an attachment to a particular form of PB risks poor integration 
and conflict with other initiatives. 
 
PB can be adapted and modified in many of its specifics without losing its essential 
benefits. One of the co-founders of The Participatory Budgeting Project has recently 
weighed in against “solutionism”: the idea that one particular defined solution can 
solve all our problems: “Solutionism tends to misunderstand and misrepresent 
problems because it downplays the importance of context and the expertise of people 
already working on the issue. Thanks to its simple and enticing messaging, it often 
draws attention and resources at the expense of longer-term work that addresses the 
broader complexity and context of social problems.” (Lerner, 2024) 
 
5. Adopting a city-wide PB initiative primarily for civic engagement risks 
taking attention away from ongoing efforts that may be more effective or 
more affordable. 
 
Portland is already engaged in improving civic engagement across many fronts, 
including the city budgeting process. Some of these efforts are in their infancy. Taking 
resources (including time and attention) from these other campaigns to put a large city-
wide PB program in place puts these at risk. 
 
6. Pressures on Portland government employees risk damaging their capacity 
to support a city-wide PB program and perform their new jobs at the same 
time. 
 
Government staff are expected to have their hands full with new roles, responsibilities, 
and reporting relationships. As above, there are significant opportunity costs to adding 
a large PB program to their burden at this time. 
 
Can these risks be avoided? 
 
Careful planning and a creative use of PB may help Portland avoid unanticipated 
consequences. The question is whether such careful planning is a realistic priority for city 
leadership at this challenging time. Planning for a phased implementation, piloting 
processes on a small scale, beginning with something more modest than a city-wide effort, 
and waiting for conditions to be favorable are all options. The fact that many different 
versions of a PB program have met their goals suggests that a highly customized program, 
implemented skillfully to reduce its burden and enhance its potential, could help Portland 
reap the benefits of Participatory Budgeting.

 
  Participatory Budgeting for Portland   53 
 
 
Conclusions 
 
These conclusions grow out of our study as documented in the preceding pages. Our 
charge was to study PB and to report on its potential for use in our city.20  
 
The conclusions we draw from our research are grouped here under four themes. This 
chapter will summarize what we conclude about: 
● The appeal of PB and its U.S. history 
● The financial implications of adopting PB 
● PB’s impact on the civic engagement of residents, and their engagement in 
municipal budgeting in particular 
● The most important challenges for Portland in considering the use of PB 
 
In evaluating the appeal of PB and its history in the U.S., we conclude that: 
 
PB is a widespread and popular process with a broad range of variation in how it is 
applied. The claims made for its broad impact on effective budgeting and civic 
engagement, however, are not well supported by empirical data.  
 
Even so, a few U.S. cities appear to be using PB in a sustained way that meets the 
goals set for it and that justifies its costs. These cities appear to have three things in 
common: First is an incremental approach to implementation, based on learning 
from local experience. Second, a focus on resident control of spending decisions at 
a district or ward level, using funds already allocated. And third, broad community 
support that involves many civil society organizations and advocacy groups. 
 
The stated goals for PB programs tend to be attractive but hazy or abstract. 
Rigorous studies of PB’s effectiveness in meeting these goals is rare. Our study of 
the experience of other cities, as compiled in our Findings, reveals that unexpected 
costs, risks, and undesirable consequences often lie behind PB’s obvious appeal. 
Researchers in the social and political sciences (who study far more cities than we 
 
20 Our conclusions and the recommendations that follow are not dependent on the city’s current financial 
and political situation. But we fully recognize that any PB program has unavoidable ties to the city’s changing 
fiscal conditions. As of today, in early February 2025, that situation is summarized in a note from the city 
administrator that can be found here. News coverage from January 17, 2025 can be found here. 
Circumstances likely prevent consideration of the additional expense of a PB program for at least the next 
two budget cycles. And fundamental changes to the structure of city government (including changes to 
budgeting processes) will take time to play out, and a large-scale PB program can only interfere and/or 
compete with this process. Accordingly, the recommendations that follow are offered “as conditions 
permit.” 
 
 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   54 
 
 
were able to directly) continually cite limitations inherent in PB as it is typically 
implemented.21 
 
In evaluating the financial implications of a PB program in Portland, we conclude that: 
 
PB can allow residents to decide how to spend funds that have already been 
targeted for a particular purpose.22 This is its most common use in U.S. cities. 
Working within existing constraints allows residents to experience the trade-offs 
and balancing acts inherent in budgeting. One or more small-scale pilot projects, 
accessing previously targeted funding, may be feasible even as the municipal 
budget is under pressure. 
 
Proposals to adopt and institutionalize PB as a city-wide program funded through a 
charter change or citizen initiative appear to be nearly unprecedented in the U.S. 
and difficult to justify from the available evidence about PB’s benefits. Other ways 
to identify funds useful for spending through PB are common. 
 
Even if PB is used to make spending decisions using previously allocated funds, 
some provision must be made for the costs of administration and overhead, which 
can be significant. Administration includes ongoing oversight and coordination of 
the PB activities, outreach and education to the community, meeting places and 
materials, evaluation, and other costs. Not included are potential ongoing costs of 
follow-up, maintenance, or operations related to projects that are approved and 
implemented. 
 
In studying PB’s potential impact on Portland residents’ engagement in the budgeting 
process, we conclude that: 
 
PB programs’ ability to involve a significant portion of the community in its activities 
is limited. Even the most positive reports show that no more than one in twenty 
residents participates. Most cities have set out to involve far larger constituencies, 
but few have made much progress. Costs rise dramatically when efforts are made 
to involve larger and larger pools of residents. The overall impact of a typical city-
wide PB program on overall civic engagement is not well supported by the available 
evidence.  
 
With a few exceptions, the experience of participating in PB is reported to be 
strikingly positive for those few who are fully engaged. These positive effects are 
related to empowerment in making spending decisions, learning about municipal 
 
21 We cite and quote many of these researchers in our Discussion/Analysis to show that what your 
committee discovered is backed up by authoritative sources. For more information, see Potential 
Unintended Consequences on page 51 and Appendix C: How and why do PB programs fail? 
22 See Appendix D for a breakdown of the types of funding that are typically spent through a PB process. 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   55 
 
 
budgeting issues, collaborating with other residents, building community, seeing 
local needs met, etc.  PB has an impressive impact on participants, but the 
percentage of residents participating is chronically low. 
An interest in and commitment to civic engagement is not new to Portland. If PB is 
undertaken as a civic engagement strategy here, the lessons learned from years of 
attention to engagement— some successful and some not— should be mined and 
used. 
 
In evaluating the challenges for  Portland in considering the use of PB, we conclude that: 
 
Any Portland PB program must be fully compatible with and integrated into the 
changes to government structures and budgeting processes now under way. Such a 
program must also be designed and developed by government and residents in 
collaboration, maximizing its potential for success.  
 
Goal-setting will be critical for Portland. The stated goals for PB programs tend to be 
broad and unspecific, as noted above, but most fall into two categories: 1) 
improving the budget process by making it more responsive to resident needs and 
wants; and 2) involving more people directly in municipal decision-making, 
especially residents who are typically under-involved. These goals are inherently 
conflicting. More involvement tends to slow decision-making; more efficient 
processes tend to allow for less involvement. The structure of PB programs differs 
according to which of these goals is primary. Cities that have failed to resolve this 
conflict, either by finding a workable compromise or by getting broad agreement to 
go one way or the other, have seen their programs stall. 
 
The challenge for Portland is to first decide what goals are most important and only 
then determine whether and how PB can help to meet them. Seeking first to adopt 
PB and then hoping to reap its benefits has things backwards. First comes clarity 
about what results are wanted and needed; subordinate to that is the consideration 
of what role PB can play. A lack of clarity about goals can lead to disappointment, 
as it has in other cities. 
 
In summary 
 
We are faced with a contradiction: on one hand, the popularity and reputation of PB 
is consistently high, not only in the U.S. (where a hundred cities use it) but around 
the world (where the World Bank continues to promote the practice).  
On the other hand, we have searched in vain for solid evidence of its broad impact 
on important goals, while smaller-scale localized programs appear to be where PB 
pays off best. We suspect that the “scalability” of PB is limited. Our evidence for 
this is in the sustained use of PB in larger cities at the district or ward level rather 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   56 
 
 
than city-wide and in the fact that smaller cities— with some exceptions— appear 
more likely to be satisfied with their PB efforts over time. 
 
PB is not a perfect process. It is not automatically successful, does not lend itself to 
one-size-fits-all implementation, is far from a quick-fix or an off-the-shelf product, 
and requires strategic and informed decision-making at the local level. Where these 
issues have been confronted and planned for, there is evidence that cities benefit 
from using PB. 
 
PB does not require its own dedicated funding, even though recent proposals in 
Portland have claimed otherwise. Instead, PB can be used— and is being widely 
used— to make spending decisions about funds already allocated to a particular 
purpose, such as recreation or infrastructure. 
 
These facts create an opportunity. We believe Portland should explore participatory 
budgeting.23 A plan of action for doing so is outlined in the following pages. 
 
 
  
 
23 In this we are pleased to see that the Government Transition Advisory Committee [GTAC] has also, in a few 
words, suggested such an exploratory step. 
 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   57 
 
 
Recommendations 
 
Your committee endorses a limited pilot program to explore participatory budgeting. If a 
pilot project meets its goals, the use of PB at the district level would be the best way for 
Portland to achieve benefits from the use of PB.   
Phase 1 – a pilot program 
The case for a pilot program 
Our conclusions acknowledge the mixed findings we compiled about PB as a practice for 
improving municipal budgeting and enhancing civic engagement. In short, PB’s popularity 
creates a halo around it that appeals to those interested in better government and better 
budgeting, while concrete results are hard to find.  
We think that a local pilot program, undertaken as soon as economic conditions permit, 
will allow decision-makers to determine whether Portland can join those other U.S. cities 
who have made PB pay benefits and justify its costs. 
PB can be used to make spending decisions about funding already dedicated to some 
appropriate purpose (such as infrastructure or specified city service) or a particular 
population (like youth, senior citizens, or an historically underserved group). In such a 
case, the additional burden is the incremental cost of administering PB. 
One or more small pilots can test the waters and keep these costs to a minimum. These 
small trials can test these hypotheses:
24 
1. Whether PB provides the municipal government with better data about residents’ 
needs and wants; 
2. Whether PB both educates and engages residents with significant enough impact to 
justify its costs; and 
3. Whether PB can complement the new city governance structure and proposed 
revisions to the budgeting process.
25  
It may be feasible to partner with organizations outside the government to support such a 
pilot project, reduce its incremental costs, and allow for more immediate action. While it is 
outside our scope to research potential partners, we think there may be potential in local 
or regional academic or philanthropic organizations— some of which might also serve as 
 
24 The first two of these restate the most common claims in favor of PB. As discussed throughout this report, 
we find limited concrete evidence to support these claims. Despite PB’s popularity, we believe these are 
open questions. We present them here as hypotheses that need to be tested locally before they can be 
embraced in Portland as features of PB. 
25 Portland is in a unique position: the municipal government structure has just now been changed in major 
ways, and significant revisions to the budgeting process have been proposed and are being implemented. 
Hypothetically, PB can be a useful complement to these activities, but this cannot be taken for granted. 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   58 
 
 
evaluators of the effectiveness of such a pilot. Some civil society organizations interested 
in good government might also provide support. 
Advocates will point out that the experience of other cities can serve as “pilots” in a way for 
Portland, and it is true that the lessons from these cities are extremely valuable. But our 
study clearly shows that what works in one city seldom works perfectly in another. Only a 
limited, small-scale pilot can test PB in Portland and evaluate its hypothetical contribution 
to our unique goals and priorities. 
A framework for getting started 
● The Finance Committee of the new city council should create a subcommittee to 
respond to GTAC’s recommendation to “explore participatory budgeting,” starting with 
a thorough review of this report. 
  
● This subcommittee should prepare a report to the Finance committee and then to the 
full council as a part of the FY 26–27 budget planning process, including their 
assessment of our recommendation for a pilot program and developing a project plan 
that includes: 
1. Concrete goals for initiating and evaluating a pilot; 
2. A feasible timeline; 
3. Existing service area(s) where planned spending would lend itself to resident 
decision-making using PB; 
4. A source of funds for administering a pilot, from inside or outside city government; 
5. An administrative structure for the pilot26; 
6. Potential partners among local non-governmental groups; and  
7. Independent organizations who can provide objective evaluation. 
 
● Following the pilot, the subcommittee should evaluate the results and make a 
recommendation to the Finance committee and then to the full council regarding a PB 
implementation. 
 
Phase 2 – After the pilot 
 
If the city council concludes, as a result of the pilot and when economic conditions permit, 
that PB should be adopted in Portland, we recommend— based on what we have seen in 
other cities— that a district-based approach, with funding allocated to districts for 
discretionary spending, would be the most likely to succeed.  
Such a program, if justified by a pilot project, would meld nicely with the new district-
based city council.  In some cities this arrangement has also helped newly elected city 
council members get a handle on what their communities really want and need: an 
 
26 The city’s recently established Engagement Officer role and the existing Civic Life department are in a 
perfect position to work with the council to develop and administer a pilot program. 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   59 
 
 
advantage considering the very large size (~157,000 residents each) of our four new 
districts.  
A district-based approach can also be focused on a particular service area, further 
narrowing the scope and limiting costs and risks. As a result of the pilot program, it should 
be clear whether using PB for specific service area spending would be appropriate, 
whether all districts should participate, and whether moving toward a city-wide program 
would be advisable at some point in the future. 
 
Committee 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
 
Hank Schottland, Chair 
Phil Wagar, Lead Writer 
Ann Lehman 
Frankline Muthomi 
Francie Royce 
 
Jon Stride, Research Advisor 
 
  

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   60 
 
 
Appendices 
 
A. Differences between worldwide PB and PB in the U.S. 
B. Examples of PB Cycles from Three Cities  
C. How and why do PB programs fail?      
D. Detailed analysis of PB variations and options 
E. Detailed analysis of evidence for and against PB 
 
  

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   61 
 
 
Appendix A: 
 
Differences between worldwide PB and PB in the U.S. 
 
While the core principles as described here are similar globally, there are notable 
differences in how PB is implemented in the United States compared to other parts of the 
world. Here are some key distinctions: 
 
Rest of the world: In the U.S.: 
Origins and Scale 
Participatory budgeting originated in Porto Alegre, 
Brazil, in 1989. In many countries, especially in 
Latin America and Europe, PB is often 
implemented at a large scale, sometimes 
encompassing entire cities or regions. The 
process in these countries typically dedicates 1–
2% of the budget to PB (one very early project in 
Brazil used 20%) with a focus on addressing 
issues like poverty, infrastructure, and social 
inequality. 
PB was introduced later in the US, around 
2009 in Chicago, and is usually implemented 
on a smaller scale, often at the district or 
neighborhood level. In the US, PB processes 
typically involve a smaller portion of the 
budget, often less than 1%, and are more 
focused on community development, civic 
engagement, and local improvements rather 
than broad social change. 
 
Focus and Objectives 
In many countries, PB has been used as a tool to 
reduce social inequalities and increase 
transparency in government spending. The focus 
is often on essential services like housing, 
education, and healthcare, with a strong 
emphasis on social justice and inclusion of 
marginalized communities. 
The focus in the US tends to be on fostering 
civic engagement, improving local amenities, 
and building trust between government and 
communities. Projects often include things 
like park improvements, public art 
installations, and community gardens. While 
social justice is a component, it is not always 
the primary focus. 
 
Legal Framework and Institutionalization 
In some countries, PB is mandated by law or 
strongly encouraged by national governments. For 
example, in Brazil, PB processes are often 
supported by local legislation that ensures a 
minimum percentage of the budget is allocated 
through PB. This legal framework helps to 
institutionalize PB and make it a more permanent 
part of the budgeting process. 
PB is not usually mandated by law and is often 
initiated by local governments, elected 
officials, or community organizations on a 
voluntary basis. This can make sustaining a PB 
program more vulnerable to changes in 
political leadership and funding availability. 
The process is less institutionalized and often 
depends on the advocacy of community 
groups. 
 
Participation and Inclusivity 
Participation in PB in other countries often 
involves a broad cross-section of society, 
including marginalized and low-income groups. In 
some cases, there are targeted efforts to ensure 
the inclusion of underrepresented communities. 
Participation can vary widely depending on the 
locality. While some US cities make efforts to 
engage marginalized communities, others 
invite all residents to participate. There is a 
growing emphasis on increasing inclusivity, 
and making participation more representative. 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   62 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and Impact 
PB has often led to significant social and 
infrastructural improvements, particularly in 
countries like Brazil, where it has helped to 
address urban inequality and improve public 
services. The impact is often visible on a larger 
scale, with substantial changes in local 
governance and resource distribution. 
 
The impact of PB in the US tends to be more 
localized, with benefits often seen in specific 
neighborhoods or districts. The projects 
funded through PB are usually smaller in 
scale, such as playgrounds, street 
improvements, or community events. The 
broader impact on social equity and 
governance is less pronounced compared to 
other countries. 
 Funding Sources 
 PB funds in many countries often come from 
the general municipal budget, with a significant 
portion allocated to the process. 
PB funds in the US are frequently sourced 
from discretionary funds allocated by city 
council members or other local officials. This 
can limit the scope and scale of the projects 
that can be undertaken. 
 
 
 
  

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   63 
 
 
Appendix B: 
 
Examples of PB Cycles from Three Cities  
 
The following detailed map of a typical PB process comes from the experience of New York 
City, perhaps the most thoroughly developed and sustained use of PB in the U.S. to date. 
Note the month-by-month annual timeline. Some PB project cycles involve longer 
timelines of up to two years or more.  
 
 


 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   64 
 
 
As evidence of the diversity of PB applications, here is a local example of a more complex 
PB program used to distribute funds from a recent bond issue. This diagram outlines the 
initial preparation and planning steps that precede the PB cycle as well as final evaluation 
and feedback: 
 
 
Metro “Nature in Neighborhoods Community Choice Grants Guidebook,” January 2023 
  


 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   65 
 
 
The PB cycle in action from Vallejo, California (the first city-wide PB program in the U.S.). 
Note the duration of a cycle in Vallejo: nine months of activity from initiation to beginning 
implementation of the chosen projects.  
 
 
 
Davidson, Mark (2018) 
 
 
  


 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   66 
 
 
Appendix C: 
 
How and why do PB programs fail?      
 
The widespread use of PB across the world over the past 30 years provides many lessons. 
Despite its popularity, not all programs have succeeded. Not many have been sustained 
over many years. Some that gained huge positive press early on have diminished, as in 
Brazil. The literature on what causes PB to fail or not to achieve its goals is vast, but the key 
failure modes are relatively few. Here are the most widely cited, compiled from a wide 
range of sources. 
 
LACK OF SUFFICIENT FUNDING 
Many PB projects are funded through small portions of local budgets, often discretionary 
funds allocated to individual districts, wards, or city council members. Funding may be so 
limited that the resulting projects are seen as trivial or unimportant. 
 
A PB program that is too limited to address important community needs can frustrate 
participants who see PB as only a token effort. This weakens participation over time and 
may stall a program entirely. Also, PB is offered as a tool for meaningful change; trivial 
results betray that promise.  
 
L
OW COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
The success of PB depends on broad and deep community participation. But in most US 
cities participation rates (the percentage of residents voicing needs and voting on potential 
projects) rarely reach 5%. 
 
Low participation almost certainly results in unrepresentative or weakly representative 
input. Only those with time, energy, and interest may be heard from. Civic engagement is 
one of the most powerful arguments for PB, yet low participation rates are very common. 
Low participation by unrepresentative groups can cast doubt on the legitimacy of the 
process and on its outcomes. 
 
I
NEQUITABLE PARTICIPATION 
When only a few volunteer members of a group participate in PB, that group is not likely to 
represent their larger community accurately. In such cases, the well-documented bias 
toward participation by middle- or upper-class residents can threaten the integrity and 
reputation of the PB process. The voices in the process may be largely those of more 
affluent or politically connected residents. Special interests with the resources to select 
and motivate voters may have undue influence on the results. 
 
If residents conclude that PB merely replaces one small group of decision-makers with 
another, the public’s sense of engagement may be worse than before. Projects may yield 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   67 
 
 
benefits only for certain groups, which worsens the inequalities PB promises to alleviate 
and undermines the social justice goals of a PB initiative. 
LACK OF POLITICAL SUPPORT 
The collaboration of elected officials and government employees  with an active PB project 
is critical to success. If this relationship is weak, uncertain, or fundamentally adversarial, 
traditional power dynamics can upend and compromise PB effectiveness. This goes 
beyond support by local government; PB requires and alliance between government and 
residents that can create a win/win outcome. 
 
Without strong political backing and mutual engagement by government and residents, PB 
projects may be delayed, underfunded, or not implemented at all, leading to 
disillusionment, a loss of faith in the process, and erosion of trust in local government. 
 
P
OOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION 
Through PB projects are proposed and then selected. But then they need to be 
implemented, a challenging step under the best of circumstances— as city government 
knows. The same bureaucratic delays, lack of coordination among departments, and 
insufficient follow-through that challenge many city governments can hinder the 
successful completion of PB projects. 
  
If projects are not implemented as promised, PB can be seen as untrustworthy and not 
worth the effort it takes to participate. Poor implementation can lead residents to perceive it as 
“no better than business as usual.” 
 
LIMITED SCOPE AND VISION 
Even if funding is sufficient, PB projects are often limited to small-scale efforts like park 
improvements or street repairs. This narrow scope limits the transformative potential of PB 
and reduces its potential to address, on its own, larger systemic issues such as housing, 
education, or healthcare. “Starting small” may be a wise change- management strategy, as 
long as it does not perceptually anchor the PB process in trivial changes. 
 
Participants may feel that PB does not address the most pressing needs of their 
community, leading to disengagement and skepticism about the process’s value and 
impact. 
 
I
NADEQUATE FACILITATION AND SUPPORT 
An effective application of PB requires skilled facilitation to educate the public, design the 
detailed project plan, recruit and prepare the participants, guide them through the 
process, ensure inclusive decision-making, and provide information about budgeting and 
the feasibility of projects. Poor performance in these areas, and/or insufficient resources 
made available for them, threatens the PB process. Outsourcing some or all of these 
responsibilities requires attention to contracting in order to retain control by government 
and residents and to build their capability for the future. 
 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   68 
 
 
Without proper facilitation, the process can become confusing or inaccessible, 
particularly for participants who may be unfamiliar with budgeting or local government 
processes. This can lead to disengagement and reduced effectiveness. 
 
COMPLEX AND LENGTHY PROCESSES 
PB processes are necessarily complex and time-consuming and require significant 
commitment from participants over several months. Attending multiple meetings, 
understanding detailed budget information, and navigating bureaucratic procedures are 
challenging for anyone, especially those with limited time or resources. 
 
If the process is perceived as too complex or burdensome, it can lead to participant 
fatigue, abandonment of the process, and an ineffective PB initiative. 
 
I
NSUFFICIENT PUBLIC AWARENESS 
Educating and informing the public about a PB initiative is both a critical success factor 
and an expensive proposition. Such efforts can readily be under-resourced. It may not be 
enough to inform community members; some level of education may be necessary to 
prevent misunderstandings and to calibrate expectations for the program. 
 
Low public awareness and/or poor comprehension of the features of a PB initiative can 
result in low turnout, insufficient participation, and a lack of community support— all 
essential components of a successful implementation. 
 
CONFLICTING PRIORITIES 
The purpose of PB is to set priorities from the perspective of residents at the grassroots. 
The perceived need for PB sometimes comes from dissatisfaction with priorities set by the 
local government. Obviously, some “new” priorities set through a PB process will conflict 
with priorities set previously or through other means. Projects chosen through PB might not 
align with existing development plans or budgetary constraints. 
 
This can create or escalate tension between the community and its local government. PB 
projects might be overridden, modified, or not fully realized, leading to frustration and 
distrust in the process.

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   69 
 
 
Appendix D: 
 
Detailed analysis of PB variations and options 
Sources of funding 
Sources are either one-time or continuing. Some sources pre-exist a PB program; in other words, PB is a way to spend 
funds previously allocated. PB tends to use “discretionary” funds, although how that term is understood varies. 
 
OPTIONS ADVANTAGES DRAWBACKS IMPLICATIONS FOR 
PORTLAND 
 
Special funding from government entities or 
another source. May be a one-time 
opportunity (like federal COVID-19 relief 
funding, used to kick off many U.S. PB 
programs) or a continuing program. A few 
programs use Tax Increment Financing (TIF) 
or Community Block Development Grant 
(CBDG) funds. PB is just one way that 
spending decisions for these funds can be 
made. 
Potentially large, especially if 
from the federal government 
(e.g., ARPA); does not affect 
ongoing city budget. 
Difficult to sustain as funding 
runs out. Can lead to an 
unfunded mandate that 
affects future general fund 
budgeting. 
“Youth Voice, Youth Vote” was 
initiated (2022) with $500K in ARPA 
funding; The “Arts Tax,” the Metro 
Parks & Nature Bond, and PCEF 
are local examples of such special 
funding. 
Institutionalized funding carved-out from an 
existing government discretionary budget and 
explicitly dedicated to spending through— and 
only through—a PB process.  
Can be done annually by 
ordinance or institutionalized 
for the long term by charter 
amendment or citizen 
initiative. 
A zero-sum option that 
diverts money away from the 
city’s ordinary budgeting 
process. 
Both recent PB proposals in 
Portland aimed to divert a small 
percentage from the discretionary 
portion of the general fund for 
exclusive PB use. 
Targeted funding already allocated (as 
discretionary spending) to some existing 
group of people (e.g., an underserved 
population); some identified public service 
(e.g., parks, schools, street repair); or some 
administrative entity (a political district/ward 
or geographic neighborhood) and then later 
distributed through a PB process. 
Residents decide how to 
spend funds that have already 
been budgeted. PB takes 
place downstream from the 
larger budgeting process and 
with less impact on overall 
financial management.  
The scale of the effort is less 
than city-wide. May saddle 
city departments with 
ongoing costs for 
maintenance and/or 
administration. 
Potential for PB use within the new 
districts, within the neighborhood 
association structure, and/or by 
certain city bureaus as 
appropriate. Small scale PB 
projects would likely be easier to 
integrate into ongoing reforms. 
Municipal bonds are occasionally mentioned 
as a funding source, but we have found no 
solid examples. Some PB programs focus on 
Can be issued by the city 
itself. 
PB projects not likely to 
generate enough revenue on 
their own to pay back 
 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   70 
 
 
capital improvements, and some of these rely 
on bond issues for funding. 
principal and interest and 
may have to be backed up by 
increases in local taxes. 
Scope of funding 
Funds can be directed at PB use across the city all at one time. Alternatively, PB is being used in a more limited or 
targeted way: (1) In one or more geographic divisions of the city, such as districts or neighborhoods; (2) In connection 
with a particular city service or bureau, such as parks, streets, or other infrastructure; (3) To benefit a selected 
population, such as a school/youth group or a disadvantaged population. 
 
OPTIONS ADVANTAGES DRAWBACKS IMPLICATIONS FOR 
PORTLAND 
 
Geographic focus 
Citywide All areas of the city get the same 
treatment; all city residents get to 
participate; a unified/standard 
process. Easily combined with a 
service-level program (see below). 
Equal but potentially inequitable. 
Needs differ across groups and 
neighborhoods. Outreach could be 
more complex and costly. 
Goals of current reforms explicitly 
aim at equity, suggesting that PB 
should be used to direct resources 
toward the most needy. 
District Offers each district a way to meet 
its unique needs; allows for equal 
or equitable distribution; 
requires district council members 
to work together; could bring 
neighborhood coalitions and 
district council members into 
alignment; projects may have 
greater “close to home” impact 
and visibility. 
Some districts may lack basic 
services and a solid foundation to 
build on; districts are large and 
may encompass large variations in 
needs; depends on stable 
governance which may be a 
challenge amid so many changes; 
districts may not be able to 
support PB infrastructure. 
 
Aligns well with new district 
structure. 
Neighborhoods or coalitions Allows neighborhoods to address 
immediate needs; aids 
community-building; builds on 
long-standing neighborhood 
association structure. Could serve 
to reform and re-invigorate the 
neighborhood associations. 
Unless administrative costs are 
shared or funded centrally, 
administering PB programs may be 
beyond the reach of 
neighborhoods or coalitions. 
Existing assemblies are subject to 
criticism about representation and 
effectiveness. 
 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   71 
 
 
Scope of funding: continued 
 
OPTIONS ADVANTAGES DRAWBACKS IMPLICATIONS FOR 
PORTLAND 
 
Government service/function/bureau focus 
Service level Lends itself to a phased 
implementation or to pilot 
programs for PB. 
A very common form of PB across 
U.S. cities yielding a large amount 
of learning to build on. 
Some cities initiating PB in this way 
have found that the effort tapers 
off after a backlog of projects—
“low-hanging fruit” —  have been 
addressed. 
The current reforms may create 
opportunities to re-think the 
functions of some bureaus and 
provide opportunities for PB to 
help. 
Focus on specific resident population 
Demographic category The most rigorously targeted use of 
PB. 
Examples include youth, BIPOC 
groups, seniors, et al. For many 
groups, community organizations  
are potential partners. 
May be difficult to identify target 
groups responsibly; lends itself to 
perceived competition between 
and among targeted groups. May 
be politically volatile. 
 
Other identifiable populations Health status has been used in at 
least one city. Early PB in Brazil 
used a “quality of life” survey tool 
to identify groups with the greater 
needs. 
The practical advantages of 
addressing defined groups can be 
undermined by perceived 
inequities in who gets to 
participate in PB. 
The Portland Insights Survey 
provides a potential means of 
targeting groups to be involved in 
PB. 
 
 
  

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   72 
 
 
Outreach to community 
Communicating the purpose and the processes for PB are critical and can be accomplished in several different ways. 
OPTIONS ADVANTAGES DRAWBACKS IMPLICATIONS FOR 
PORTLAND 
By central city government Economies of scale; uniform 
messages; single source for 
consistency. 
May be perceived as contradicting 
PB’s promise of local control and 
decision-making. 
Reforms may not have progressed 
to the point where city government 
is perceived as a reliable source. 
By district council offices May boost the reputation of the 
new district leadership; good for 
district and neighborhood 
funding/projects; maximizes 
interaction between council 
members and their constituents. 
May not be a good fit if city-wide 
funding is needed for city-wide 
projects; outreach can be 
expensive and may not be 
affordable at the district level. 
District offices will be lightly 
staffed and possibly overwhelmed 
for the near future. 
By or through existing community 
organizations with city affiliation 
(neighborhood associations, 
coalitions) 
These groups already know the 
area and are knowledgeable about 
local civic issues. 
Groups are not certain to be 
representative of an area and may 
function as special interests; these 
groups involve residents who are 
already engaged: bringing in 
additional, under-involved 
residents may be difficult. 
 
By community groups, non-profits, 
NGOs 
Can provide perspectives and 
connections beyond city-affiliated 
groups. 
If outreach is spread across 
multiple organizations within a 
region, high levels of coordination 
and administrative support would 
be needed. 
The Portland Insights Survey page 
lists these four:  
● Community Engagement 
Liaison Services (CELs); 
● The Miracles Club; 
● Multnomah County Youth 
Commission; 
● Portland All Nations Canoe 
Family; 
● The Rosewood Initiative 
 
 
  

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   73 
 
 
Scope of projects 
Projects funded through PB are of two types: capital/infrastructure; and programs, usually ongoing. Most PB programs 
limit projects to one or the other. 
OPTIONS ADVANTAGES DRAWBACKS IMPLICATIONS FOR 
PORTLAND 
Capital-only Most of the cost is in the initial 
construction, but the benefits pay 
out over a longer period; 
a physical result is highly visible to 
the people who voted. 
Downstream maintenance will be 
needed but unfunded; 
capital projects can be expensive 
in Portland; a long list of capital 
projects is already in the queue for 
bureaus and departments. 
 
Program-only Very popular with residents; can be 
less expensive to start up; benefits 
are immediate. 
Funding for a second or any 
subsequent year is not assured 
unless taken up by other means; 
new programs would need to be 
aligned with existing departments 
and bureaus. 
 
 
 
 
Who can propose ideas/projects 
This is typically a process with ideas submitted to a central location or an event open to the public. 
OPTIONS ADVANTAGES DRAWBACKS IMPLICATIONS FOR 
PORTLAND 
Residents individually Fosters the most direct and 
immediate connection between 
residents and a PB program. 
Creates an unfiltered collection of 
unprocessed ideas that will need 
further study and filtration.  
 
Residents, via assemblies The method preferred by 
experienced advocates; such 
assemblies may evolve into new 
communities of engagement that 
persist year-over-year. 
Greater costs involved in planning, 
holding, and facilitating such 
assemblies; recruiting and 
selecting participants requires 
careful planning; some residents 
are not available to participate. 
The Portland area is rich in 
expertise related to such 
assemblies; see, for example, 
Healthy Democracy 
(healthydemocracy.org)  
 
 
  

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   74 
 
 
How to assess project feasibility and estimate cost 
Not all ideas residents raise are feasible; there are several methods used to assess projects for feasibility. 
OPTIONS ADVANTAGES DRAWBACKS IMPLICATIONS FOR 
PORTLAND 
Existing city staff in collaboration 
with residents 
The most knowledgeable group 
regarding project feasibility, cost 
estimation, overlap with existing 
projects, etc. 
Not generally recognized as a core 
job function today; requires 
commitment to making PB work; 
collaboration with residents 
requires significant oversight and 
facilitation. 
Ongoing changes in staffing and 
job responsibilities will make 
coordination of this issue 
especially challenging at this time. 
Volunteers with city administrative 
experience, in collaboration with 
residents 
Same strengths as above, if such 
volunteers exist in sufficient 
numbers 
Effort required to recruit and select 
volunteers with knowledge and 
ability, beyond their willingness to 
do the work 
 
 
 
Who can vote on projects/proposals 
In most PB programs, voting is open to all residents. In a few cases, there are limitations or certain people are targeted 
for participation. 
OPTIONS ADVANTAGES DRAWBACKS IMPLICATIONS FOR 
PORTLAND 
All residents over a certain age, 
throughout the city 
Engages residents citywide on 
common issues 
Difficulty in defining “resident”, 
ensuring the integrity of the vote, 
preventing proxy voting or ballot 
harvesting; unlikely to represent 
the larger community accurately; 
unreasonable to expect 
participation rates above the single 
digits, based on broad experience 
in US cities to date. 
Advocates for PB blame decision-
making by small unrepresentative 
groups as a reason for adopting 
PB; self-selected voters in small 
numbers fail to address this 
problem. 
All residents over a certain age, 
from a district 
Applies if district-specific funding 
is used (see above). 
Same as above  
All residents over a certain age, 
from a neighborhood or 
neighborhood coalition 
Applies if neighborhood- or 
coalition-specific funding is used. 
Same as above  
A selected representative 
(“stratified”) sample of residents 
A small group more likely to 
represent the entire community or 
Additional expense in the selection 
process; requires additional 
Such stratified sampling is used for 
the Portland Insights Survey 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   75 
 
 
neighborhood than self-selected 
participants; less likely to be 
“captured” by interest groups. 
outreach to create support for this 
method; not everyone who wants 
to participate can do so. 
administered by PSU; the 
knowledge required to do this 
exists in the city. 
Voting method and alternate decision methods 
Voting in the way most are familiar with— one person, one vote— is nearly universal. However, concerns about 
participation rates are provoking discussion of other methods in the literature. The only city we have found that has 
experimented with alternate methods is New York, where sortition has been used (see Glossary). 
OPTIONS ADVANTAGES DRAWBACKS IMPLICATIONS FOR 
PORTLAND 
Approval (top choice or choices by 
number of single votes)  
Easiest to understand and most 
familiar 
Not responsive to budgeting limits; 
allows for split votes; see the 
current discussion related to 
ranked-choice voting. 
 
Knapsack (total cost of projects 
chosen must not exceed a certain 
amount) 
Requires a sort of “budgeting” in 
the vote itself; voters must 
consider the relative cost of 
different options rather than 
simply vote for their favorites; 
online Knapsack voting simulators 
and platforms are easily available. 
Not well suited to paper ballots; 
may exclude some potential voters 
uncomfortable with online 
platforms or with limited access to 
the internet. 
 
Ranked-choice (RCV)  RCV will be a known technique in 
Portland; can be combined with 
Knapsack voting to reap the 
benefits of both. 
Does not require automation in the 
act of voting, but does in efficient 
tabulation. Paper ballots can be 
used. Otherwise, same as above. 
By the time a PB program is in 
place, RCV may be familiar to most 
residents. 
“Token” voting: distribute a set 
number of tokens (votes) among 
the available options 
Provides the voter with more 
nuanced options; allows voters to 
indicate the strength of their 
preferences. 
Easier to use with paper ballots 
than some other alternatives. 
 
Deliberative decision-making 
methods other than straight voting, 
including sortition: decision by 
assemblies or other group 
meetings 
Allows for selection of projects 
through guided discussion and 
consensus; much deeper 
assessment of costs/benefits, 
utility, true preferences; more 
likely to yield a coherent set of 
choices rather than a ranked list; 
aligns resident decision-making 
with the processes used by elected 
and appointed government agents. 
Cannot be used with universal 
participation but only with 
representative samples of the 
population (see above); costly to 
administer and facilitate; requires 
community agreement with the 
method and radical transparency 
in order not to appear that 
decisions are made in a “smoke-
filled room.” 
 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   76 
 
 
Appendix E: 
 
Detailed analysis of evidence for and against PB 
Claims in support of PB       
Claims in favor of PB: Evidence from Interviewees Evidence from Empirical Research 
Redistribute funds to 
historically underserved 
communities. 
 
 
● An example is the school improvement project in low-
income communities, which aligns with Chicago’s PB 
goal of fostering equity and inclusion.  
● Seattle’s PB distributes funds to historically 
underserved communities, specifically targeting 
Black, Indigenous, and People of Color. 
● LA’s PB process (LA REPAIR; Reforms for Equity and 
Public Acknowledgement of Institutional Racism) 
allocated $8.9 million to communities deeply affected 
by the history of racial and economic injustice.
27 
● The Brazilian PB processes aimed primarily to distribute 
socioeconomic resources and encourage tax 
payment. 28 
PB brings communities that 
were previously excluded 
(marginalized) into 
government decisions.  
● In Chicago, the demographic composition of the 
usual suspects (older, wealthier, white men) changes 
with time to include younger and more diverse 
groups, and more young black men are starting to 
attend PB events. 
● NY’s PB targets diverse community members drawn 
from youths, seniors, veterans, LGBTQIA+, public 
housing, English as a second language, people with 
disabilities, and justice-impacted groups. 
● San Francisco’s PB process recruited neighborhood 
council members representing different age groups, 
gender, race, etc., to spearhead PB’s goals, methods, 
and voting. 
● Representation in deliberative processes is enhanced 
through a robust and random selection of participants 
ranging from 20–100 representative citizens, 
community staff, experts & policy makers, etc.
29 
● Representation is also enhanced through different 
participatory approaches like mini-publics, deliberative 
panels, citizens’ juries, conversation café, citizen 
assemblies, and online deliberation, offering diverse 
community members various avenues to participate.30 
● NY City’s PB process incorporates a Citizen Assembly 
model to recruit and enhance the representation of 
historically marginalized communities in deliberative 
decision-making.31 
 
27 Repair.LACity.org. 
28 Falanga & Luchmann (2020). 
29 Democratic Society (2021). 
30 Ibid. 
31 Civic Engagement Commission (2023). 
 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   77 
 
 
 
Claims in favor of PB: Evidence from Interviewees Evidence from Empirical Research 
Increased levels of civic 
participation. 
● Chicago’s experience with participation depends on 
how forums are facilitated; for example, a 
brainstorming session may have large participants 
attending but not necessarily involved in deliberations 
as expected.  
● NY’s PB design incorporates a deliberative process 
based on a random selection of participants (active 
sortation), where the selection process guarantees 
participation across the different phases of PB. 
● NY has observed increased numbers of residents 
becoming interested in civic life in their 
neighborhoods after the PB process. About 100,000 
people attend PB events. 
● Cleveland is skeptical of PB’s ability to increase 
participation, except for observations in Chicago’s 
District 44, which has existed for many years 
compared to other US cities.  
● It enhances social learning, community building, and 
better decisions.32 
● While there are few (or no) evaluations on the number of 
participants during PB’s initial phases, reports indicate 
prevailing fluctuations in the number of people voting in 
PB processes. Furthermore, the number is deficient 
compared to the overall population of a region.
33 
● PB processes in Brazil and Portugal increased civic 
participation by targeting direct and representative 
community members with significant power to propose 
and vote for projects.
34 
● Research highlights that PB processes in many 
countries have increased civic participation by 
encouraging community members to use the 
consensus model (or voting when consensus is not met) 
to propose local budgetary programs. Examples are in 
Kenya, Mozambique, Indonesia, Philippines, and 
Senegal.35 
Builds a pathway for 
engagement in other areas 
(voting in PB elections, 
voting in general elections) 
San Francisco attempted to change their general voting 
age after seeing successful voting of youths (16 years and 
above) in the PB process, though it failed. 
PB in Cleveland (and an overall observation) has failed to 
increase voter turnout in both PB and general election; 
<3%! 
Research indicates a potential increase in voter 
participation (e.g., NY), voter campaigns (e.g., US and 
Canada), voter turnout (e.g., Prague, Czech Republic; Porto 
Alegre, Brazil), and political participation (Argentina, 
Uruguay, Brazil, NY, London) after participating in PB 
processes.36 
  
 
 
32 Democratic Society (2021). 
33 Zachary Roth (2022, August 23). Making Participatory Budgeting Work: Experiences on the Front Lines.  
34 Falanga & Luchmann (2020). 
35 Wampler & Touchton (2017). 
36 People Powered: Global Hub for Participatory Democracy, Research Brief. 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   78 
 
 
Claims in favor of PB: Evidence from Interviewees Evidence from Empirical Research 
Builds a pipeline for future 
leaders or newly elected 
leaders to understand their 
constituents better. 
● Mayors and councilors in Chicago, New York, San 
Francisco, and Portland have previously been elected 
based on promises to adopt and implement PB in their 
regions. However, Portland’s PB initiatives never 
materialized. 
● Young progressive (and some non-progressive) elected 
officials in Chicago use PB to enhance their visibility 
and engage with the community. 
● Research suggests that newly elected leaders are 52% 
more likely to adopt and implement PB as a symbol of 
renewed political representation and coalition 
building.
37 
Fosters budget 
transparency and 
accountability 
● Many PB processes follow a prescribed method of PB 
rubric development, idea collection, brainstorming 
sessions, voting, and funding winning projects. This 
process lets residents know how the projects and 
funds are distributed across their regions. 
● Many cities make the PB process as open and 
transparent as possible by translating the projects into 
multiple languages to promote the inclusion of non-
English speakers. 
● Research suggests that PB initiatives significantly 
increase budget transparency and foster greater 
engagement.
38 
Builds more trust in the 
budget process overall 
● New York City’s PB processes are designated as a 
means for increasing public trust, and people develop 
trust when they know that they were listened to 
through PB. A Civic Engagement Commission 
evaluation of the New York City’s PB process indicates 
that public trust increased by 25% after participating. 
● Research shows that PB bolsters local governments’ 
legitimacy and gives people a positive view of 
government officials.
39 
Staff (not necessarily 
management) in the budget 
office want PB so that they 
have more direct contact 
with the public. 
● In San Francisco, a district supervisor opted for PB to 
enhance civic involvement in fiscal resource allocation 
and promote quality of life for residents. 
● Research suggests that public officials perceive PB as 
a valuable initiative for prioritizing citizen input, 
significantly where PB adds value to public 
decisions.
40 
 
37 Jacquet et al. (2024). 
38 Crossman, H., & Fischer, D. (2016). Participatory budgeting and transparency in municipal finances. Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, 
17(3), 663–681. 
39 Swaner, R. (2017). Trust matters: Enhancing government legitimacy through participatory budgeting. New Political Science, 39(1), 95–108. 
40 Migchelbrink, K., & Van de Walle, S. (2022). Serving multiple masters? Public managers’ role perceptions in participatory budgeting. Administration & 
Society, 54(3), 339–365. 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   79 
 
 
Claims in opposition to PB      Return 
Claims against PB: Evidence from Interviewees Evidence from the Literature 
Administrative costs for a 
well-run program are 
significant, even for one 
that distributes a small 
amount of funds. 
● Most cities (New York, San Francisco, Cleveland) 
struggle with sufficient human capital to help 
implement PB. In Cleveland, PB is perceived to 
increase operational costs that would have otherwise 
been used toward the project needs. Instead, cities 
often set aside a percentage of the total PB money to 
support administrative and operations expenses. 
● Research shows that PB initiatives account for 
increased administrative costs that directly influence 
government expenditures.41 
If funding comes from cuts 
to other service areas, 
creating a potential 
problem for residents and 
businesses that use those 
services. 
● PB in Cleveland would harm the distribution of funds 
to other departments that offer essential services to 
communities and businesses that rely on those 
services. 
● In Portland, the budget has structural financial 
problems from the revenue perspective that 
potentially harm the business cycle, e.g., dependency 
on the transportation tax, which is slowly dying, 
creating a structural problem in raising resources to 
fund city programs and services. Moreover, the PB 
funds were determined to take up to 1 fire station 
budget, meaning that 1 station must be closed to fund 
it. 
● A study about New York City’s PB process found that 
officials in areas where PB is implemented funded more 
projects at lower average amounts than those not 
involved. However, the study reveals that PB does not 
necessarily change region funding.42 
● Research also reveals that PB does not necessarily limit 
other services from being implemented. Instead, when 
effectively implemented, PB can encourage 
communities to volunteer to cover implementation 
costs.
43  
PB hurts labor unions.  ● Cleveland considers PB a threat to labor unions 
because it reduces their ability to get raises by 
reducing the general fund balances. Examples of pro-
labor unions against PB include SEIU, ASFCME, etc. 
● While there is no empirical support for this claim, 
research suggests that PB often encourages revenue 
generation for the government by increasing people’s 
willingness to pay and maintain services that the 
community depends on.
44 
                
 
41 World Bank (2008). Toward a more inclusive and effective participatory budget in Porto Alegre. Vol. 1, No. 40144-BR.  
42 Calebrese, Williams, & Gupta (2020).  
43 Cabannes, Y. (2015). The impact of participatory budgeting on basic services: Municipal practices and evidence from the field. Environment and 
Urbanization, 27(1), 257–284. 
44 Ibid. 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   80 
 
 
Claims against PB: Evidence from Interviewees Evidence from the Literature 
PB gives financial decision-
making and authority to 
people who weren’t 
elected. 
● Cleveland’s PB process would bypass elected officials’ 
ability to oversee municipal finances, which they were 
elected to represent the interest of communities. 
● In Portland, the city council was uncomfortable allocating 
funds to another entity to allocate the budget, especially 
being the legal jurisdiction permitted to develop and 
approve the budget.  
● Research suggests that PB initiatives are a means 
of empowering communities to partake in the 
affairs of their taxes. In most cases, the PB process 
is done collaboratively with community-led 
delegates, public officials (both elected and 
appointed), civil society, and the private sector. 
Most decisions approved through the PB process 
are guided by a general rubric of specific capital or 
recurring projects that can be funded.45  
PB is like a grants program 
but not run as efficiently. 
 
 
● In New York City, the PB is established as a statewide and 
district-specific process. However, the evidence for how 
efficient the methods have been, especially by comparing 
efficiency across non-implementing and implementing 
districts, hasn’t yet been undertaken. 
● The proposed PB in Portland is a glorified grant program 
that involves participatory spending because it has no 
funding source, has more overhead, takes longer, and is 
inefficient in allocating money to key needed projects. 
● In Portland, there hasn’t been a citywide strategic plan 
that could help align reform initiatives such as PB with the 
city’s overall goals. 
● The Portland budget was significantly constrained by 
limited funding and overwhelming public service needs. 
PB would not have offered efficient solutions to decide 
where the council should spend the tax dollars. 
● Portland’s Civic Life implements a grant funding model for 
various groups to decide the programs to fund. 
● The failed PB processes in Prague 7, Czech 
Republic, are explained by a lack of know-how, 
where implementing actors and partners had 
limited methodological framework for making PB 
work. Inefficiency, for instance, occurred in areas 
where implementors failed to cooperate with civil 
society.
46   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45 Ibid. 
46 Soukop, Saradin, Zapletalova (2021).  

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   81 
 
 
Claims against PB: Evidence from Interviewees Evidence from the Literature 
Better or cheaper ways 
could improve engagement 
in the budgeting process. 
● Council members could do local neighborhood meetings, 
listen to people’s needs, and then elevate them to 
government policy/ budget, as in Cleveland. 
● Community budget meetings, YouTube, and televised 
forums are also used in Cleveland.  
● In Portland, the city council was concerned about why 
another system for citizen participation in the budget, 
which is also costly, was necessary. Yet, the city had 
existing systems for that purpose. Existing platforms 
include public hearings and budget advisory committees 
(through the neighborhood association). 
● Portland’s Office of Civic Life partners with 94 
Neighborhood Association (now divided based on the 
established Districts to form 4 District Coalitions Offices) 
and budget advisory committees to facilitate cheaper and 
community-based participation. 
● Small, inexpensive citizen engagement is preferable to an 
expensive PB process to provide people lower in the 
ladder of participation to become more engaged.  
● The research underscores that using multiple 
strategies would yield more significant outcomes 
and benefits to the government and communities. 
Various mechanisms include advisory committees, 
public hearings, surveys, focus groups, budget 
simulations, neighborhood associations, and 
televised hearings with questions.
47 
PB contradicts state or city 
budget laws and processes. 
● PB in Cleveland is perceived as contrary to the 
representative democracy model institutionalized by state 
laws. 
● In Portland, the PB proposal came when the city was 
facing financial struggles and transitioning, posing a 
challenge to PB and city budget alignment. 
● In Seattle, the PB was designed to ensure the projects are 
aligned with the State budget laws; the downside is that 
the process has taken longer than usual PB process (2 
years +), and by the time of the interview, the priority 
● Research suggests that most PBs are designed 
alongside the overall government budget cycle. The 
intention to adopt PB is often based on elected 
leaders’ willingness to listen to their constituencies’ 
needs and priorities. However, elected officials still 
retain the powers and privileges to decide how 
resources are distributed within the budget. Thus, 
most PB processes don’t require any alterations of 
the government’s budget laws and processes.
48 
 
47 Nabatchi, Sancino, and Sicilia (2017); Nabatchi (2012); Ebdon and Franklin (2006); Fung (2006); Bryson et al. (2013); Callahan (2007); Irvin and 
Stansbury (2004); Creighton (2005); Thomas (1995). 
48 Nowak, T. (2017). Dilemmas of participatory budgeting from the perspective of the Polish law and experience. Revue Internationale Des 
Gouvernements Ouverts, 6, 59-70. 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   82 
 
 
projects were yet to be approved by the council for 
implementation to begin. 
Claims against PB: Evidence from Interviewees Evidence from the Literature 
It leads residents to 
propose unfeasible 
projects. 
● In Chicago, some districts avoid PB because of the 
perception that residents tend to choose projects that 
are not for the efficient use of the dollar money. 
● In New York City, community organizations leading 
the PB process meet with city officials to evaluate and 
assign costs to proposed projects. City experts 
eliminate some unfeasible projects. 
● In Portland, PB was perceived as not the best tool for 
facilitating the maintenance of previously proposed 
capital projects within PB processes.  
●  
● There is evidence that PB processes lead residents to 
propose unfeasible projects. However, since PB is 
designed to be a collaborative process, studies suggest 
that public officials must educate the public and 
provide justifiable reasons why specific proposals may 
not be implementable.
49   
PB overworks staff who 
review the proposals 
beyond normal work 
obligations.
 
● New York City’s PB process has limited engagement 
with city officials or government experts to determine 
the feasibility of proposed projects. 
● New York’s city staff have some sort of resistance to 
the PB process simply because they are busy with 
their other city duties and responsibilities.  
● San Francisco’s PB process ensured a department 
expert was in correspondence with the neighborhood 
council, providing proposed project 
recommendations. Department staff didn’t like the 
extra PB work. 
● The staff in Portland Metro had some reservations 
against PB because it increased their workload and 
was expensive. 
● There is no empirical evidence to substantiate this 
claim. Instead, research shows that public managers 
have a general acceptance of PB. For instance, scholars 
reveal that public managers have managerial, technical, 
citizen-centered, and skeptical perspectives toward PB. 
Neither of these perspectives leads public managers to 
limit or deny PB, even among the skeptics whose 
research suggests they consider PB only if it adds value 
to final decisions.
50 
 
49 Ibid. 
50 Migchelbrink, K., & Van de Walle, S. (2022). Serving multiple masters? Public managers’ role perceptions in participatory budgeting. Administration & 
Society, 54(3), 339–365. 

 
Participatory Budgeting for Portland   83 
 
Claims against PB: Evidence from Interviewees Evidence from the Literature 
Budget management is 
complex, and it takes a lot 
of work and study to 
understand it fully. 
● The proposed PB in Cleveland failed to consider 
complex budgetary tradeoffs and multilayered 
decisions that go into the budget. 
● The proposed PB in Cleveland did not have a 
framework for project implementation after voting, 
requiring some legal foundation prescribed in the 
Finance Act. 
● The Portland budget is complex, based on the legal 
categorization of ongoing or one-time programs. PB 
would require ongoing funding, which is 
unsustainable for the city. It would not fit the one-
time funding model because it would require funding 
reductions from other programs each year.  
● Generally, PB rarely takes into consideration budget 
cuts during times of fiscal stress. 
● Research agrees with the notion of budget complexity 
and the use of technical jargon that average citizens 
may not comprehend. Similarly, the budget process 
comprises several stages that are co-dependent. 
However, citizens are often engaged in the initial stages 
of the budget-making process. Furthermore, the time 
allocated for citizens to engage in budgeting is limited, 
which limits the time they have to understand budget 
tradeoffs and complexities.
51 
Residents with enough time 
and money to participate 
dominate the process, 
unlike communities 
targeted for greater 
inclusion. 
● PB in Cleveland was, though unimplied, provided the 
mayor absolute control over the PB funds where the 
mayor was to appoint at least 5 out of 10 community 
members and additional staff who work in the office 
of the Mayor to be in charge of PB processes. 
● In Cleveland, most people who show up are 
unemployed and have the time to participate, not the 
working class. 
● Research on the ability of PB to foster greater inclusion 
of targeted communities and not the usual suspects is 
inconclusive. Some studies indicate that most people 
voting in PB processes are often white, college-
educated, and from higher-income households.52 Other 
studies suggest that the usual suspects assist in 
mobilizing marginalized individuals and communities to 
participate, consequently involving more marginalized 
people. 53 
              
 
51 de Azevedo, R. R., Cardoso, R. L., da Cunha, A. S. M., & Wampler, B. (2022). Participatory budgeting and budget dynamics in the public sector. 
Revista de Contabilidade e Organizações, 16. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.11606/issn.1982-6486.rco.2022.193141.  
52 Pape, M., & Lim, C. (2019, December). Beyond the “Usual suspects”? Reimagining democracy with participatory budgeting in Chic ago. In 
Sociological Forum (Vol. 34, No. 4, 861–882). 
53 Godwin, M. L. (2018). Studying participatory budgeting: Democratic innovation or budgeting tool? State and Local Government Review, 50(2), 132–
144. 

 
84 
 
Bibliography 
 
A note on sources: 
 
The literature on participatory budgeting is vast. PB programs have been covered in the 
popular press, usually by the local media when a program is initiated or changed. 
Advocates for PB publish frequent reports both documenting successful initiatives and 
describing what they recommend as standard models and best practices. Both social 
scientists and political scientists have produced many in-depth studies and historical 
reviews. And several academic dissertations and theses have addressed PB. Reviewing all 
of this is obviously beyond the capacity of our committee. 
 
Four sources in particular have been especially useful. One is a 2022 report from The 
Brennan Center for Justice at the NYU School of Law that outlined the experience of a 
dozen or so U.S. cities. The cities listed in this report became our targets for interviews.  
 
Two independent researchers have specialized in the study of PB and related civic 
engagement practices over many years and have published both books and papers on the 
subject:  
 
Brian Wampler is Professor of Public Scholarship and Engagement, Office of the President 
at Boise State University, and Professor of Political Science in the School of Public Service. 
Wampler has studied the rise and fall of PB in Brazil and its spread worldwide and in the 
U.S.  
 
Hollie Russon Gilman served in the Obama Administration as the White House Open 
Government and Innovation Advisor and is now a Senior Fellow at New America's Political 
Reform Program where she leads the Participatory Democracy Project, an Affiliate Fellow 
at Harvard Kennedy School's Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation, and 
a Senior Advisor to the Harvard-Bloomberg City Leadership Initiative where she is 
conducting research to inform city leaders on building more equitable and inclusive civic 
engagement. Both Wampler and Russon Gilman are quoted extensively in this report and 
their works are featured in this bibliography. 
 
Finally, Josh Lerner co-founded the Participatory Budgeting Project before moving in 2018 
to People-Powered, an online hub focused on participatory democracy. As the author of 
Everyone Counts (see below) Lerner was one of the first to promote PB in the U.S. More 
recently, he has published on how PB fits into a larger “eco-system” of democratic 
reforms.  
 
The committee was charged with making an independent, evidence-based study of PB. 
While we have consulted the available information presented by dedicated advocates for 
PB, we recognize that their mission is to promote the practice rather than to assess it 
objectively. Accordingly, direct citations from these sources— and also from entrenched 
opponents of the practice— are limited in this report. 

 
85 
 
General 
Bartlett, T, J Lerner, D Schugurensky, and Madison Rock. Educating for Democracy: The Case for 
School Participatory Budgeting. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar Publishing, 2024 
“Core Principles for Public Engagement,” The Public Engagement Principles Project 2009, 
Organizing Engagement. https://organizingengagement.org/models/core-principles-for-
public-engagement/ 
Creighton, James L. The Public Participation Handbook: Making Better Decisions Through Citizen 
Involvement. Hoboken: John Wiley and Sons. 2005. 
Crossman, H., & Fischer, D. (2016). “Participatory budgeting and transparency in municipal 
finances.” Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, 17(3) (2016), 663–681. 
Davis, Shari. (Obama Foundation Fellow and Executive Director of the Participatory Budgeting 
Project). Interview. Organizing Engagement. 2019 
https://organizingengagement.org/interview/shari-davis/ 
The Democratic Society. Guide to Deliberation: Participatory Budgeting. Brussels: The Democratic 
Society Ltd. 2021. 
Friendly, Abigail. “Participatory Budgeting: The Practice and the Potential” The Institute on Municipal 
Finance and Governance (IMFG). University of Toronto, September 2016. 
Gherghina, Sergiu et al. “Participatory budgeting and the perception of collective empowerment: 
institutional design  and limited political interference” Acta Polit. 2022 December 
2;58(3):573–590. 
Johnson, Carolina. “Engaging Democracy: An Institutional Theory of Participatory Budgeting.” 
Dissertation. University of Washington, 2017. 
“Key Resources for Deliberative Engagement for Municipalities” Colorado State University Center for 
Public Deliberation, n.d. 
Lerner, Josh (2014). Everyone Counts: Could “Participatory Budgeting” Change Democracy? Cornell 
University Press. 2014. [Winner of the inaugural Laurence and Lynne Brown Democracy 
Medal] 
Masser, Kai. “Participatory budgeting as its critics see it.” Bundeszentrale fur politische Bildung , 
April 4, 2014. https://www.bpb.de/themen/stadt-
land/buergerhaushalt/513409/participatory-budgeting-as-its-critics-see-it/ 
Pape, Madeleine and Lerner, Josh ("Budgeting for Equity: How Can Participatory Budgeting Advance 
Equity in the United States?" Journal of Public Deliberation: Vol. 12 : Issue 2 , Article 9 
(2016). https://www.publicdeliberation.net/jpd/vol12/iss2/art9 
“Participatory Budgeting.” HUD Exchange, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/participatory-budgeting/ 
“Participatory Budgeting.” Organizing Engagement. 
https://organizingengagement.org/models/participatory-budgeting/ 
“Public Spending by the People: Participatory Budgeting in the United States and Canada in 2014–
15” Public Agenda via the Yankelovich Center for Public Judgement, May 2016 
http://www.publicagenda.org/pages/public-spending-by-the-people 
Rubin, Marilyn Marks and Carol Ebdon. “Participatory Budgeting: Direct Democracy in Action.” CPAR 
Volume 11, Issue 1, June 2020. 
Russon Gilman, Hollie. "Transformative Deliberations: Participatory Budgeting in the United States," 
Journal of Public Deliberation: Vol. 8: Issue 2, Article 11. (2012) 
https://www.publicdeliberation.net/jpd/vol8/iss2/art11 
Russon Gilman, Hollie. “Engaging Citizens: Participatory Budgeting and the Inclusive Governance 
Movement within the United States,” Ash Center for Democratic Governance and 
Innovation, Harvard Kennedy School. 2016. 

 
86 
 
Russon Gilman, Hollie. Democracy Reinvented: Participatory Budgeting and Civic Innovation in 
America. Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation, Harvard University. 2016 
Russon Gilman, Hollie. Participatory Budgeting and Civic Tech: The Revival of Citizen Engagement. 
Georgetown: Georgetown University Press. 2016 
Shah, Anwar, ed. Participatory Budgeting. The World Bank, Public Sector Governance and 
Accountability Series. 2007. 
Stacy, Christina, Martha Fedorowicz and Rebecca Dedert. Best Practices for Inclusive Participatory 
Budgeting, The Urban Institute, August 2022. 
https://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/2022-
09/Best%20Practices%20for%20Inclusive%20Participatory%20Budgeting.pdf 
Swaner, R. “Trust matters: Enhancing government legitimacy through participatory budgeting.” New 
Political Science, 39(1), 95–108 (2017). 
Thomas, John C. Public Participation in Public Decisions. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. 1995 
Tian, Carrie. “Open Budget, Open Process: A Short History of Participatory Budgeting in the U.S.” 
Sunlight Foundation, Jul 15, 2013 https://sunlightfoundation.com/2013/07/15/open-
budget-open-process-a-short-history-of-participatory-budgeting-in-the-us/ 
Wampler, Brian. "Participatory Budgeting: Core principles and Key Impacts," Journal of Public 
Deliberation: Vol. 8: Issue. 2, Article 12 (2012). 
https://www.publicdeliberation.net/jpd/vol8/iss2/art12 
Wampler, Brian. "Participation, Representation, and Social Justice: Using Participatory Governance 
to Transform Representative Democracy". Polity, 44(4), 666–682 (2012). 
https://doi.org/10.1057/pol.2012.21 
“Why Let the People Decide? Elected Officials on Participatory Budgeting” Public Agenda via the 
Yankelovich Center. November 2013.  https://publicagenda.org/resource/why-let-the-
people-decide-elected-officials-on-participatory-budgeting/ 
 
PB and Community Engagement in Portland 
“A City for All of Us; More Voices, Better Solutions. Strengthening Community Involvement in 
Portland.” Community Connection Final Report, January 2008. Office of Neighborhood 
Involvement, City of Portland, Oregon. 
Alarcon de Morris, Amalia and Paul Leistner. “From Neighborhood Association System to 
Participatory Democracy—Broadening and Deepening Public Involvement in Portland, 
Oregon,” National Civic Review. Volume 98, Issue 2. Summer 2009. 47–55. 
“Budget and Finance Staffing and Budget Process Transition Report.” Equilibrium Collaborative LLC 
for the City of Portland, Oregon. 2024 
https://www.portland.gov/transition/documents/budget-and-finance-staffing-and-budget-
process-transition-repo/download 
“City of Portland Public Involvement Principles.” Developed by the Public Involvement Advisory 
Council (PIAC) and adopted by City of Portland, Oregon, Resolution No. 36807. 2010. 
“Community Budgeting For All Shifts to 2026 Election.” Community Budgeting for All, Portland, 
Oregon. 20224. https://www.communitybudgetingforall.com/ 
“Community Forum Report 2018: Bringing Participatory Budgeting to the Portland Metro Region” 
Participatory Budgeting Oregon. 2018. https://www.pboregon.org/community-forum-report 
“Community-Led Recovery: Youth Voice, Youth Vote.” Participatory Budgeting Oregon. 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/12BvKDJMSuDyrxPfnwHc4jo4ln1Cg-vZm/view 
“Final Progress Report, Portland Charter Commission.” City of Portland,  Oregon. January 2023. 
Fox, Jamal T. and Lawanda Manning. Letter of support for participatory budgeting, Oregon 
Commission on Black Affairs, State of Oregon. 2018 

 
87 
 
“Government Transition Advisory Committee Budget Workgroup, Early Stakeholder Engagement 
Report April 2024” City of Portland, Oregon. 2024. 
https://www.portland.gov/transition/documents/government-transition-advisory-
committee-budget-workgroup-early-stakeholder/download 
Jacobson, Rebecca. “Portland Youth Exercise Power through Participatory Budgeting” Getting 
Smart, January 29, 2024 https://www.gettingsmart.com/2024/01/29/portland-youth-
exercise-power-through-participatory-budgeting/ 
Key, Nuin-Tara (2010) “Neighborhood Governance in Portland Oregon: An Analysis of Public 
Involvement in Urban Planning” 46th ISOCARP Conference. 2010. 
“Listening to City Employees: The Results”; “Listening to All Portlanders: The Results.” Portland 
Engagement Project, 2023. City of Portland, Oregon, Office of Community & Civic Life. 2023. 
https://www.portland.gov/civic/portland-engagement-project 
“Participatory Budgeting and Charter Reform.” Participatory Budgeting Oregon, Presentation to 
Portland, Oregon, Charter Commission. September 13, 2022. 
https://www.portland.gov/omf/charter-review-commission/documents/participatory-
budgeting-presentation-charter-commission-09/download 
“Proposed Participatory Budgeting Amendment to the Portland Charter: Briefing Document” 
Participatory Budgeting Oregon. 2023. https://tinyurl.com/PDX-PB-Breifing [sic] 
“Recommendations to City Leaders of the New Government”  The Government Transition Advisory 
Committee, City of Portland, Oregon, September 2024 
https://www.portland.gov/transition/advisory/news/2024/9/11/final-recommendations-
government-transition-advisory-committee 
 
PB in selected U.S. locations 
Boston, Massachusetts 
“Youth Lead the Change: Participatory Budgeting, Boston 2016” Boston University Initiative on 
Cities. 2016. https://hdl.handle.net/2144/20263 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 
“Participatory Budgeting Evaluation Report, Beyond Participation: Evaluating the Impacts of 
Participatory Budgeting for the City of Cambridge.” For the City of Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, by University of MA-Boston, January 2017. 
“Participatory Budgeting in Cambridge: 2014–2015 Rulebook.” City of Cambridge , Massachusetts. 
2014. 
Sego, Phil. “Participatory budgeting is a flawed model for municipal decision-making” Cambridge 
Day, Wednesday, March 13, 2024, accessed November 12, 
2024.https://www.cambridgeday.com/2024/03/13/participatory-budgeting-is-a-flawed-
model-for-municipal-decision-making/ 
Chicago, Illinois 
Clark, Anna (2014) “Is Participatory Budgeting Real Democracy: Politics, People’s Choice Style in 
Chicago,” Next City, accessed November 12, 2024, https://nextcity.org 
Pape, M., & Lim, C. Beyond the “Usual suspects”? Reimagining democracy with participatory 
budgeting in Chicago. Sociological Forum. Vol. 34, No. 4, 861–882, December 2019. 
“Participatory Budgeting Chicago: Rulebook 2021” Great Cities Institute at the University of Illinois 
at Chicago. 2021 
PB Processes: PB Chicago.” [summary of current PB projects in Chicago wards]. 
https://www.participatepbchicago.org/processes 
Cleveland, Ohio 
“Petition for Submission of Proposed Amendment to Charter” City of Clevelan d, Ohio. 2023. 

 
88 
 
Harsh, Kris. “Why Clevelanders should reject participatory budgeting.” Editorial, Cleveland Plain 
Dealer, June 2, 2023. 
“Peoples’ Budget Cleveland Debate.” [live debate on a fall 2023 PB ballot proposal] Cleveland, 
Ohio, City Council. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_fPkrCaej3M. [A shorter highlights 
version is at: https://youtube.com/shorts/wYqpFV4Tv3Q?si=L-XnBhCjRVODYm3n] 
“DeWine signs bill to block participatory budgeting proposals, like one rejected in Cleveland.” 
Cleveland.com, January 2,2024. https://www.cleveland.com/news/2023/12/dewine-signs-
bill-to-block-participatory-budgeting-proposals-like-one-rejected-in-cleveland.html 
“Case Study: People’s Budget Cleveland.” The Democracy Beyond Elections Coalition, Cleveland, 
Ohio. [PB advocates’ study of the failed PB ballot initiative of November 2023] 
https://www.democracybeyondelections.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/2024-10-
Cleveland-Case-Study.pdf 
Durham, North Carolina 
“What is Durham Participatory Budgeting?” City of Durham, North Carolina, 
https://www.pbdurham.org/ 
Grand Rapids, Michigan 
“BGR Rule Book.” Participatory Budgeting Grand Rapids, City of Grand Rapids, Michigan., 2021. 
“Participatory Budgeting Grand Rapids: The Future Is in Our Hands.” City of Grand Rapids, Mich. 
https://www.grandrapidsmi.gov/Government/Programs-and-Initiatives/Participatory-
Budgeting 
Greensboro, North Carolina 
“PB Cycle 3 Project Updates Q2 2023.” City of Greensboro, North Carolina, 2023. Available at 
www.pbgreensboro.com 
Los Angeles, California 
“LA Repair Participatory Budgeting.” City of Los Angeles , California. https://repair.lacity.gov/ 
“LA launches participatory budget pilot program to boost economic equity.” Los Angeles Daily 
News, June 1, 2022. https://www.dailynews.com/2022/05/20/la-launches-particpatory-
budget-pilot-program-to-boost-economic-equity/ 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
“Participatory Budgeting Overview” presented to Budget Committee January 22, City of Minneapolis , 
Minnesota., Office of the City Auditor. January 2024. 
 
New York, New York 
“A People’s Budget: A Research and Evaluation Report on Participatory Budgeting in New York City, 
Cycle 4 (2014–2015)—Key Research Findings.” By the Community Development Project at 
the Urban Justice Center with the PBNYC Research Team. 2015. 
“New Research on Participatory Budgeting Highlights Community Priorities in Public Spending.” 
News release, July 22, 2020. NYU Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human 
Development. New York City, New York. https://www.nyu.edu/about/news-
publications/news/2020/july/new-research-on-participatory-budgeting-highlights-
community-pri.html 
“Study Explores Whether Participatory Budgeting Has Become a Patronage Mechanism in New York 
City.” News release, Apr 30, 2020. NYU Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and 
Human Development. New York City, New York. https://www.nyu.edu/about/news-
publications/news/2020/april/StudyExploresParticipatoryBudgetingInNYC.html 
The People’s Money.” New York City Civic Engagement Commission, City of New York, New York. 
2024. https://www.nyc.gov/site/civicengagement/our-programs/participatory-
budgeting.page 

 
89 
 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
“The People’s Budget: Re-Envisioning the City Budget.” The Mural Arts Philadelphia Project. City of 
Philadelphia, Pa., n.d. [an unusual PB use that may not fit the model used by most PB 
programs] https://www.muralarts.org/artworks/a-peoples-budget/ 
“Participatory Budgeting: Allowing for direct community involvement in City spending decisions 
through participation in the budget process.” City of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. n.d. 
https://www.phila.gov/programs/participatory-budgeting/ 
Rhode Island 
Participatory Budgeting: A Health Systems Transformation Project Initiative 2024” Rhode Island 
Department of Health. 2024. https://health.ri.gov/publications/annualreports/participatory-
budgeting-report-2024.pdf 
Rochester, New York 
RMAPI [Rochester-Monroe Anti-Poverty Initiative] announces winners of Participatory Budgeting 
project.” WHAM News, February 7, 2019. City of Rochester, New York. [Innovative use of PB 
targeting a specific social justice issue; appears not to have continued] 
https://13wham.com/news/local/rmapi-announces-winners-of-participatory-budgeting-
project 
Sacramento, California 
City of Sacramento Participatory Budgeting Evaluation Report, City of Sacramento/Third Plateau, 
January 2023. 
Seattle, Washington 
“Seattle’s $27 million experiment in participatory budgeting is not worth repeating.” The Seattle 
Times (editorial) Nov. 14, 2023. https://www.seattletimes.com/opinion/editorials/seattles-
27-million-experiment-in-participatory-budgeting-is-not-worth-repeating/ 
“History of Participatory Budgeting in Seattle.” Seattle Department of Neighborhoods, City of 
Seattle, Washington. n.d. https://www.seattle.gov/neighborhoods/public-
participation/your-voice-your-choice/history 
“Your Voice, Your Choice” [announcing the suspension of a PB program at the end of 2023]. Seattle 
Department of Neighborhoods, City of Seattle, Washington. 2023. 
https://www.seattle.gov/neighborhoods/public-participation/your-voice-your-choice 
“The People’s Budget Seattle: Announcing Winning Projects [2023].” https://pbseattle.org/ 
“Black Brilliance Research Report” Black Brilliance Research (BBR) Project, Seattle Wash. February 
20, 2021 [Massive project report including details of PB use for social justice initiatives] 
https://www.seattle.gov/Documents/Departments/Council/Committees/EconDev/BBR-
Report-with-Appendices-v1.pdf 
Tacoma, Washington 
“Participatory Budgeting: You Decide How to Spend $1,000,000.” City of Tacoma, Wash. 
https://www.cityoftacoma.org/government/city_departments/office_of_management_and_
budget/participatory_budgeting 
Vallejo, California 
Davidson, Mark. “Participatory budgeting, austerity and institutions of democracy: the case of 
Vallejo California.” City, 22:4, 551–567 (2018). 
https://doi.org/10.1080/13604813.2018.1507107 
“Participatory Budgeting in Vallejo, California,” Participedia, accessed November 12, 2024 
https://participedia.net/case/participatory-budgeting-in-vallejo-california 
“Participatory Budgeting in Vallejo: Innovation in Democracy & Community Engagement, A Summary 
of Cycle 1” City of Vallejo, California., February 2014. 

 
90 
 
Semuels, Alana. “The City That Gave Its Residents $3 Million: Vallejo, California, residents were 
initially psyched to spend tax dollars on their pet projects. But things haven't turned out as 
they had hoped.” The Atlantic, November 6, 2014 
https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2014/11/the-city-that-gave-its-residents-3-
million/382348/ 
 
Implementation 
Hadden, Lerner. “How to start Participatory Budgeting in your city.” Shareable, June 27, 2024. 
https://www.shareable.net/how-to-start-participatory-budgeting-in-your-city/  
“PB scoping toolkit: Guide for officials & staff interested in starting PB.” The Participatory Budgeting 
Project, 2017. https://www.participatorybudgeting.org/resource/scoping-toolkit/ 
Russon Gilman, Hollie et al. “City Leader Guide on Civic Engagement: Designing Pathways for 
Participatory Decision-Making.” The Bloomberg Harvard City Leadership Initiative, May 
2023. https://www.cityleadership.harvard.edu/wp-
content/uploads/migrate/BHCLI_CivicEngagement_0000CG.pdf 
Russon Gilman, Hollie et al. “City Leader Guide on Civic Engagement: Designing Pathways for 
Participatory Decision-Making—WORKBOOK.” The Bloomberg Harvard City Leadership 
Initiative, May 2023. https://www.cityleadership.harvard.edu/wp-
content/uploads/migrate/BHCLI_CivicEngagement_ 0000WB.pdf 
“The beginner’s guide to participatory budgeting: An introduction for city governments setting up 
participatory budgets.” Go Vocal SA, 2024. www.govocal.com 
 
Methods, Tools, and Alternatives 
Ehsassi, Marjan H (2025). Activated Citizenship: The Transformational Power of Citizens’ 
Assemblies. New York: Routledge Books. 2025. 
Fishkin, James S (2018). Democracy When the People are Talking: Revitalizing Our Politics Through 
Public Deliberation. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2018 
Gelauff, Lodewijk and Ashish Goel. “Rank, Pack, or Approve: Voting Methods in Participatory 
Budgeting.” Proceedings of the Eighteenth International AAAI Conference on Web and 
Social Media (ICWSM 2024) 
Goel, Ashish. “Knapsack voting for participatory budgeting.” ACM Transactions on Economics and 
Computation. Vol.7, No.2, July 2019 
“Increasing Turnout In Local Elections,” National Civic Review, Spring 2020: Volume 109, Number 1. 
https://www.nationalcivicleague.org/ncr-article/increasing-voter-turnout-in-local-
elections/ 
Lerner, Josh. (2024) “From waves to ecosystems: the next stage of democratic innovation.” 
University of Delaware, Biden School of Public Policy and Administration. June 2024. 
Stanford Participatory Budgeting Platform https://pbstanford.org/ and 
https://www.peoplepowered.org/resources-content/stanford-participatory-budgeting-
platform 
Vlahos, Nick. “Integrating Participatory Budgeting and Institutionalized Citizens’ Assemblies: A 
Community-Driven Perspective” National Civic Review. Volume 112, Number 4, Winter 
2024. 
 
 
 

 
91 
 
World-Wide Perspectives 
Brazil - Toward a more inclusive and effective participatory budget in Porto Alegre : Main report 
(English). Public expenditure review (PER) Washington, D.C. : World Bank Group. 2008. 
http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/778301468019774995/Main-report 
de Paiva Bezerra, Carla and Murilo de Oliveira Junqueira, “Why has Participatory Budgeting Declined 
in Brazil?” Braz. political sci. rev. 16 (2) (2022).  https://doi.org/10.1590/1981-
3821202200020001 
Falanga, Roberto and Lígia Helena Hahn Lüchmann. “Participatory Budgets in Brazil and Portugal: 
Comparing Patterns of Dissemination.” Policy Studies 41(6): 603-622 (2020). 
Ganuza, Ernesto and Baiocchi, Gianpaolo "The Power of Ambiguity: How Participatory Budgeting 
Travels the Globe," Journal of Public Deliberation: Vol. 8: Issue 2, Article 8 (2012). 
https://www.publicdeliberation.net/jpd/vol8/iss2/art8 
Gilman, Hollie and Wampler, Brian "The Difference in Design: Participatory Budgeting in Brazil and 
the United States," Journal of Public Deliberation: Vol. 15: Issue 1, Article 7 (2019). 
https://www.publicdeliberation.net/jpd/vol15/iss1/art7 
Jacquet, V., Minsart, E., & Dodeigne, J. “The spread of participatory budgeting: Procedural diversity, 
municipal context, and electoral drivers in the Belgian context.” International Review of 
Administrative Sciences, 00208523241238083 (2024). 
Wampler, Brian and Benjamin Goldfrank (2022). The Rise, Spread, and Decline of Brazil’s 
Participatory Budgeting: The Arc of a Democratic Innovation. Berlin: Springer, 2022. 
Wampler, Brian et al. “Participatory Budgeting: Spreading Across the Globe,” Open Government 
Partnership [blog], 13 October 2017. 
https://www.opengovpartnership.org/stories/participatory-budgeting-spreading-across-
the-globe/ 
 
Reviews, Studies, and Evaluations 
“15 Key Metrics for Evaluating Participatory Budgeting: A Toolkit for Evaluators and Implementers.” 
n.d. Public Agenda and the Participatory Budgeting Project 
https://www.participatorybudgeting.org/15-key-metrics-for-evaluating-pb/ 
Bartocci, Luca et al “The journey of participatory budgeting: a systematic literature review and future 
research directions.” International Review of Administrative Sciences, Vol. 89(3) 757–774 
(2023).  https://DOI: 10.1177/00208523221078938 
Bryson, John M., Kathryn S. Quick, Carissa Schively Slotterback, and Barbara C. Crosby. “Designing 
Public Participation Processes.” Public Administration Review 73(1): 23–34. (2013). 
Cabannes, Y. “The impact of participatory budgeting on basic services: Municipal practices and 
evidence from the field.” Environment and Urbanization, 27(1), 257–284. (2015).  
Cabannes, Y., & Lipietz, B. “Revisiting the democratic promise of participatory budgeting in light of 
competing political, good governance and technocratic logics.” Environment and 
Urbanization, 30(1), 67-84 (2018).  https://doi.org/10.1177/0956247817746279 
Calabrese, T., Williams, D., & Gupta, A. “Does participatory budgeting alter public spending? 
Evidence from New York City.” Administration & Society, 52(9), 1382–1409. (2020). 
Callahan, Kathe. “Citizen Participation: Models and Methods.” International Journal of Public 
Administration 30(11): 1179–1196 (2007). 
de Azevedo, R. R., Cardoso, R. L., da Cunha, A. S. M., & Wampler, B. “Participatory budgeting and 
budget dynamics in the public sector.” Revista de Contabilidade e Organizações, 16 (2022). 
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.11606/issn.1982-6486.rco.2022.193141.  
de Soysa, Anoukh “Participatory Budgeting: Public Participation in Budget Processes” Transparency 
International. 2022. 

 
92 
 
https://knowledgehub.transparency.org/assets/uploads/kproducts/Participatory-
Budgeting-Primer-Final.pdf 
Doherty, David et al. “Who is Interested in Participating in Participatory Budgeting?” State Politics & 
Policy Quarterly 24: 2, 121–144 (2024). https://doi:10.1017/spq.2023.25 
Ebdon, Carol and Aimee L. Franklin. “Citizen Participation in Budgeting Theory.” Public 
Administration Review, May/June 2006. 
Friendly, Abigail. “Participatory Budgeting: The Practice and the Potential” The Institute on Municipal 
Finance and Governance (IMFG), University of Toronto, September 2016 
Fung, Archon. “Varieties of Participation in Complex Governance.” Public Administration Review 66: 
66–75 (2006). 
Ganuza, Ernesto and Baiocchi, Gianpaolo "The Power of Ambiguity: How Participatory Budgeting 
Travels the Globe," Journal of Public Deliberation: Vol. 8: Issue 2, Article 8 (2012). 
Gherghina, Sergiu et al. “Participatory budgeting and the perception of collective empowerment: 
institutional design and limited political interference” Acta Polit. Dec 2;58(3):573–590  
(2022). 
Gourgues, Guillaume et al. “From the participatory turn of administrations to the bureaucratization 
of participatory democracy: study based on the French case.” International Review of 
Administrative Sciences 0(0) 1–18 (2021). 
Irvin, Renee A. and John Stansbury. “Citizen Participation in Decision Making: Is It Worth the Effort?” 
Public Administration Review 64 (1): 55–65 (2004). 
Klimovský, Daniel et al. “Participatory Budgeting as a Democratic and Managerial Innovation: Recent 
Trends and Avenues for Further Research.” Cent. Eur. J. Public Policy 2023; 18(1): 52–71 
https://DOI: 10.2478/cejpp-2024-0004 
Kukuckova, Sona and Eduard Bakos. “Does Participatory Budgeting Bolster Voter Turnout in 
Elections? The Case of the Czech Republic.” The NISPAcee Journal of Public Administration 
and Policy, Vol. XII, No. 2, Winter 2019/2020 
Maor, Moshe. “Policy bubbles: What factors drive their birth, maturity and death?” British Politics 
and Policy, London School of Economics. July 19, 2014. 
https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/politicsandpolicy/policy-bubbles/ 
Michels, Ank. “Innovations in democratic governance: how does citizen participation contribute to a 
better democracy?” International Review of Administrative Sciences 77(2) 275–293 (2011) 
Migchelbrink, K., & Van de Walle, S. “Serving multiple masters? Public managers’ role perceptions in 
participatory budgeting.” Administration & Society, 54(3), 339–365 (2022). 
Nabatchi, Tina, Alessandro Sancino, and Mariafrancesca Sicilia. “Varieties of Participation in Public 
Services: The Who, When, and What of Coproduction.” Public Administration Review 77(5): 
766–776 (2017). 
Nabatchi, Tina. “Putting the “Public” Back in Public Values Research: Designing Participation to 
Identify and Respond to Values.” Public Administration Review 72(5): 699–708 (2012). 
Nowak, T. “Dilemmas of participatory budgeting from the perspective of the Polish law and 
experience.” Revue Internationale Des Gouvernements Ouverts, 6, 59–70 (2017). 
Pateman, Carole. “Participatory Democracy Revisited” APSA Presidential Address. Perspectives on 
Politics, March 2012 | Vol. 10/No. 1 https://doi:10.1017/S1537592711004877 
Petite, Wesley M. “Resident Inclusion in the Age of Participation: A Study of Toronto’s Participatory 
Budgeting Pilot Project 2015–2017” Dissertation, Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario 2020.  
“Revisiting the democratic promise of participatory budgeting in light of competing political, good 
governance and technocratic logics.” Environment & Urbanization, Vol 30(1): 67–84 (2018). 
International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED). 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0956247817746279 

 
93 
 
Rumbul, R., Parsons A., Bramley J. (2018) Elite Capture and Co-optation in Participatory Budgeting in 
Mexico City. In: Edelmann N. et al. (eds). Electronic Participation. ePart 2018. Lecture Notes 
in Computer Science, vol 11021. Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
98578-7_8 
Rumbul, Rebecca et al. “Participatory Budgeting: A Meta Level Review,” My Society, January 2018 
http://research.mysociety.org/publications/participatory-budgeting 
Soukop, M., Šaradín, P. and Zapletalová, M. “Participatory Budgeting: Case Study of Possible 
Causes of Failures”, Slovak Journal of Political Sciences, 21(2), pp. 139–160 (2021).  
Available at: https://sjps.fsvucm.sk/index.php/sjps/article/view/243  
Snippe, Esther and Silvia Ellena. “Participatory budgets: growing trend, little impact?” Euractive  
January 26, 2023. https://www.euractiv.com/section/participatory-
democracy/infographic/participatory-budgets-growing-trend-little-impact/ 
Wampler, Brian et al. “Participatory Budgeting: Does Evidence Match Enthusiasm?” Open 
Government Partnership, 2nd November 2017. 
https://www.opengovpartnership.org/stories/participatory-budgeting-does-evidence-
match-enthusiasm/ 
Williams, Emyr. “Participatory Budgeting: An Evidence Review.” Public Policy Institute for Wales, 
August 2017. 
 
Resource Hubs Online 
Journal of Public Deliberation [special issue on PB]. Volume 8, Issue 2, 2012 
https://delibdemjournal.org/issue/48/info/ 
National Civic League [manages the All-American Cities award program]. 
https://www.nationalcivicleague.org/?s=Participatory+budgeting&submit=search 
The Participatory Budgeting Project. https://www.participatorybudgeting.org/  
Participedia: A global crowdsourcing platform for researchers, activists, practitioners, and anyone 
interested in public participation and democratic innovations. 
https://participedia.net/search?selectedCategory=all&query=participatory%20budgeting# 
People-Powered: Global Hub for Participatory Democracy [links to multiple articles/studies] 
https://www.peoplepowered.org/participatory-budgeting 
  

 
94 
 
Witnesses 
 
Andrew Scott 
Deputy COO at Metro and former Portland Budget Director 
 
Benjamin Solotaire, Forrest Sparks 
PB implementation team, NYC 
 
David Chen 
Former Portland Charter Commissioner 
 
David Knowles 
Former Portland Charter Commissioner 
 
Erica Maybaum 
Program Analyst at San Francisco City/County, and former legislative aid supporting PB, 
San Francisco 
 
Fallon Thompson, Carmen Ortiz 
PB implementation team, Durham NC  
 
Jessica Kinard 
Consultant at Equilibrium Collaborative and former Portland Budget Director 
 
Jim Labbe 
Participatory Budgeting 
 
JoAnn Hardesty 
Former Portland Commissioner and City Council member 
 
John Page, Mano Dasilva 
Office of Civil Rights (PB implementation team), Seattle 
 
Kris Harsh 
Cleveland City Council 
 
Lodewijk Gelauff 
Project Lead, Stanford Participatory Budgeting Platform 
 
Mike Jordan 
City Administrator, Portland 
 
 

 
95 
 
Mourad Ratbi, Sandra Lefracois, Ocean Eale 
Office of Community & Civic Life, Portland 
 
Ruth Levine 
Budget Director, Portland 
 
Shoshanah Oppenheim 
Strategic Projects, Portland 
 
Terry Harris 
Government Transition Advisory Council, Portland 
 
Thea Crum 
Great Cities Institute (research organization), Chicago 
 
Tim Grewe 
Former Budget Director, Portland 
 
  

 
96 
 
Acknowledgments 
 
The study committee would like to thank Jonathan Kaufman for providing editing services 
for this report. 
 
 
Errata  (changes made after the membership vote) 
 
Below are corrections to some of the background material; the Committee concluded that 
none of the changes affect the conclusions or recommendations in the report. 
 
• On page 13 in the next to last paragraph, the charter amendment text for 
Participatory Budgeting, voted on by the Charter Commission, was written by the 
City Attorney’s Office, not Participatory Budgeting Oregon. 
 
• On page 14, footnote number 9 should read as: 
9https://www.portland.gov/wheeler/news/2024/5/2/mayor-wheeler-proposes-82-
billion-budget-fiscal-year-2024-25 
 
• On page 14, the report states that the proposed ballot measure is “essentially 
replicating” the earlier proposal to the charter commission. It’s more accurate to 
say that the sponsors of the proposed ballot measure crafted an expanded 
measure that included a number of other features not present in the original 
proposed charter amendment. 
 
• On page 94 the affiliation of witness Jim Labbe should read “Participatory Budgeting 
Oregon”. 
 
 
 
 
 
City Club of Portland was founded in 1916 with the mission to inform our members and the 
community in public matters and to arouse in them a realization of the obligations of 
citizenship.  We are one of the oldest civic organizations in Oregon. 
 
City Club of Portland 
221 NW 2nd Ave., #213 
Portland, OR  97209 
503-228-7231 
pdxcityclub.org 