Source: https://www.nyc.gov/site/charter/news/charter-commission-approves-proposals-relating-to-campaign-finance-community-boards-civic-engagement.page
Retrieved: 2026-09-17

Charter Revision Commission Approves Proposals Relating to Campaign Finance, Community Boards, and Civic Engagement
Commission on Government Efficiency
311
Search all NYC.gov websites
Menu
Text-Size
Search
Home
About
Get Involved
Reports
News
Translations
Press Release Archive
Select
Press Release Archive
Newsletter Archive
Press Release Archive
Newsletter Archive
Share
Print
IMMEDIATE  RELEASE:
September 4,  2018
CONTACT:
press@charter.nyc.gov, 617-733-6891
New York City Charter Revision Commission Approves Proposals Relating to Campaign Finance, Community Boards, and Civic Engagement
Ballot Questions Will Be on the  General Election Ballot in November
Vote Follows Extensive Public Outreach  and Input Across all Five Boroughs That Included Hearings, Expert Issue Forums,  a Twitter Town Hall and a Tele-Town-Hall
NEW YORK
—Today,  following extensive public discussion across the five boroughs, the New York  City Charter Revision Commission voted to approve three ballot questions for the  voters to consider in November.  Features  of the proposals include:
Campaign Finance:
Reduce contribution limits for all  candidates for City elected offices, and increase public matching funds for candidates who participate in the  public financing program. Contribution limits for participating candidates  would be cut by more than 60%, while the matching rate on the "small dollar"  portion of contributions to such candidates would increase from 6:1 to 8:1.
Civic Engagement:
Establish a Civic Engagement  Commission whose mission includes expanding language access at polling sites,  developing a citywide participatory budgeting program and supporting and  partnering with community organizations in their civic engagement efforts.
Community Boards
: Establish term limits on Community  Board members and standardize the appointment process to make the Boards more  representative of their communities. Boards would also receive additional  resources, particularly in urban planning.
Chair Cesar Perales said:
"This Commission set out to identify proposals designed to  improve civic life in New York City and, through an extensive and thoughtful  process, that is just what we have done. The proposals approved by the  Commission today will provide the voters with an opportunity to weigh in on  changes that would impact several important aspects of civic life. I'd like to  thank the members of the public who came to testify; good government groups and  others who provided critical input; and the members and staff of the Commission  who put in the hard work needed to do the job."
Commission's Final Report Approved
The  Commission also today approved a Final Report discussing the proposed ballot questions.  The Final Report's Executive Summary is excerpted below:
Campaign Finance
The  Commission proposes to amend the City's campaign finance system in order to  address persistent perceptions of corruption associated with large campaign  contributions, boost incentives for campaigns to reach out to small donors, and  create more opportunities for candidates to run diverse types of campaigns  without the need to rely on large donors.
If  adopted by the voters, these amendments would:
Significantly lower contribution limits for  City elected offices.
The maximum total amount a  participating candidate (i.e., a candidate who chooses to participate in the  City's public financing program) may accept from a contributor per election  cycle would be reduced from $5,100 to $2,000, for candidates for Mayor, Public  Advocate, or Comptroller; from $3,950 to $1,500, for candidates for Borough  President; and from $2,850 to $1,000, for candidates for the City Council. The  maximum total contribution to a non-participating candidate (that is, a  candidate who does not participate in the City's public financing program)  would be reduced from $5,100 to $3,500, for candidates for Mayor, Public Advocate,  or Comptroller; from $3,950 to $2,500, for candidates for Borough President;  and from $2,850 to $1,500, for candidates for the City Council.
Strengthen small dollar public matching for  candidates who participate in the City's public financing program.
Currently, participating candidates, who meet certain qualifying  thresholds, are eligible to receive public matching funds at a rate of $6 in  public funds for every $1 in matchable contributions, up to the first $175 per  contributor. The proposed Charter amendment would increase the match to $8 in  public funds for every $1 in matchable private contributions, up to the first  $250 per contributor to candidates for Citywide office and up to the first $175  per contributor to candidates for Borough President or City Council. The  amendment would also ease a requirement that candidates for Mayor, Comptroller,  or Public Advocate must meet to qualify for matching funds.
Increase the total amount of public matching  funds available to such candidates.
The proposed amendment would increase  the cap on the total amount of public matching funds that a participating  candidate may receive, per election, from 55% to 75% of the expenditure limit  for the office being sought.
Allow such candidates to access public  matching funds earlier in the election year.
Under current law, … the vast majority of public funds are not disbursed until …  early August of the election year, about five to six weeks before the primary.  The proposed amendment would allow qualifying candidates to receive public  matching funds [earlier] in the election year … and would remove monetary  limits on the pre-August distribution of funds. However, in order to receive  any disbursement of public funds prior to August of the election year, qualifying  candidates would have to attest to the need for the funds and demonstrate that  they have a viable opponent, or that they are running against an identified  opponent in an open election.
All  of these amendments would apply to participating candidates who choose to have  the amendments apply to their campaigns, beginning with the 2021 primary  election. The amendments would then apply to all candidates beginning in 2022.
Civic Engagement
The  Commission proposes establishing the Civic Engagement Commission, a new Charter  entity dedicated to enhancing civic participation and strengthening democracy  in New York City. The Civic Engagement Commission would consist of 15 members:  eight appointed by the Mayor, including at least one member from the largest political  party and at least one member from the second largest political party; two  appointed by the Speaker of the City Council; and one appointed by each Borough  President. The Mayor would designate a Chair from among his or her appointees,  who would also serve as the Executive Director and be charged with the  organization and staffing of the office.
The  Civic Engagement Commission would be authorized and directed to implement a  Citywide participatory budgeting program established by the Mayor, no later than  the City Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020; establish a program for providing  language interpreters at poll sites in New York City, to be implemented for the  general election in 2020; support and partner with community-based  organizations, institutions, and civic leaders in the public and private  sectors in their civic engagement efforts; consider the language access needs  of limited English proficient New Yorkers in developing and implementing its  programs and services; and partner with City agencies to increase awareness of  and access to City services, assist them in promoting civic engagement  initiatives, and develop strategies to centralize public information about  opportunities for civic engagement.
The  Mayor would be authorized to transfer to the Commission, by executive order,  any directly related powers and duties currently being performed by the Mayor's  Office or any department whose head is appointed by the Mayor.
Finally,  the Civic Engagement Commission would be required to annually report on  participatory budgeting, poll site language assistance, and any other  information it deems relevant.
Community Boards
The  Commission proposes the following amendments to the Charter, in order to help  make community boards more reflective of the communities they represent and  more effective in that representation:
Term limits.
The Commission proposes term limits for  community board members, who currently serve for two-year terms without limit,  to create opportunities for new voices and leaders on all community boards.  Members appointed or reappointed on or after April 1, 2019, would be limited to  serving four consecutive two-year terms. However, members appointed or  reappointed for a term commencing on April 1, 2020, could be reappointed for up  to five consecutive two-year terms, in order to prevent a heavy turnover of  community board membership in 2027 and 2028. Appointments made for terms  commencing after April 1, 2020, would be subject to four consecutive two-year  term limits. These term limits would be prospective only; terms served before  April 1, 2019, or April 1, 2020, would not count toward the term limits that  start on those dates. Members who have served for the maximum number of  consecutive terms would not be barred from re-appointment after one full term  out of office.
Appointment process.
The Commission proposes several changes intended to bring more  uniformity and transparency to the process of appointing members to community  boards and to encourage diversity in appointments. The proposed amendments  would require Borough Presidents to seek out persons of diverse backgrounds for  appointment to community boards and make applications available on their  websites. The proposal would also add new application and reporting  requirements related to these appointments, including an annual report  disclosing information about membership and the recruitment and selection  process.
More resources.
The Commission proposes requiring the Civic Engagement  Commission, if the voters approve creating such an entity, to provide  additional resources to community boards, including access to urban planning  professionals and language access resources, in order to enable the boards to  more effectively meet their Charter responsibilities.
About the Charter Commission's Public Engagement  Efforts
The 2018 Charter Revision Commission worked hard to  ensure all New Yorkers had opportunities to speak directly to the Commission. Through  this outreach, more than 1,000 ideas to revise the City Charter were submitted  to the Commission for consideration.
In August, the Commission held "Charter Week," a  series of public hearings and public engagement events across all five  boroughs. "Charter Week" built on the Commission's extensive public outreach  campaign to ensure all of New York City's communities have access to the  Charter revision process. Throughout the process, New Yorkers have submitted  hundreds of ideas for changes to the Charter. Issue forums provided the  Commission with more in-depth information related to focus areas.
All events were open to the public and live streamed  over the internet. Language translation services, American Sign Language  interpreters, and L.O.O.P devices were provided. All events were held at  accessible spaces. Public comments have also been submitted at tabling events  and additional community forums focused on youth, immigrant New Yorkers, and  veterans.
The public was alerted to the Commission's hearings  through advertising in community and ethnic papers and messages through  organizations with large distribution lists. Notice was given to every  Community Board— as well as City, State, and Federal elected officials. Media  advisories were issued to a list of more than 3,000 people at least twice per  public hearing. Public notices for each hearing were published in the City  Record and on the Commission's website,
nyc.gov/Charter
. Notices were translated  into several languages: Arabic, Bengali, Chinese (Mandarin, Cantonese), French,  Haitian Creole, Korean, Polish, Russian, Spanish, and Urdu.
nyc.gov home
Services
Events
Your government
311
Contact NYC government
Register to vote
Emergency alerts
Careers
Website feedback
Accessibility resources
Privacy policy
Terms of use
About nyc.gov content
NYC
Search
© City of New York. 2025 All Rights Reserved. NYC is a trademark and service mark of the City of New York.