Source: https://www.pboregon.org/youth-voice-youth-vote-pb
Retrieved: 2026-09-17

Youth Voice, Youth Vote PB | Participatory Budgeting Oregon
Skip to main content
Main navigation
Home
About Us
What is PB
Our Team
Board & Advisors
Accomplishments
Reports
Our Work
Youth Voice, Youth Vote PB
Student Leaders For PB
Reynolds HighSchool PB
Your 2 Cents PDX
Events
Donate
Contact
Join Our Team
Search
Youth Voice Youth Vote
Youth Voice, Youth Vote Participatory Budgeting (YV² PB)
Youth Voice Youth Vote Project Area
(
Read the YV2 Report here
)
Project Background
Youth are uniquely impacted by COVID-19 and are vastly underrepresented in government decisions made on their behalf. That’s why PB Oregon co-launched the Youth Voice, Youth Vote PB (YV² PB) in 2022. Oregon's first PB process, YV² PB, enlisted youth to propose and select over $500,000 in COVID-19 relief and recovery projects in State Senate Districts 24 and 25,
a project area
(right) that spans East Portland, East Multnomah County, and portions of North Clackamas County and over seven school districts. This PB process was made possible by American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) dollars committed by State Legislators Kayse Jama, Chris Gorsek, and Ricki Ruiz.
Oregon's First Participatory Budgeting Process
By sharing real power over real money,
participatory budgeting
(PB) taps the expertise of those most impacted by systemic inequities by provides a mechanism to directly engage those most underrepresented in government in decision making. By exercising their power though the PB process, participants expand the civic leadership and organizing skills that power social movements while building trust and transparency around the use of public funds. PB has spread rapidly around the globe since starting in Brazil in 1989 and across the US after launching in Chicago in 2009. But PB has yet to come to Oregon––until now. With the strategic investment of ARPA funds by State Legislators, organizational commitments, and both individual and grant donations to kickstart this effort, YV² PB launched Oregon's first PB process.
Timeline
2022:
The first PB cycle starting in 2022 aims to engage at least 2,000 youth across these phases. The steering committee co-designed the process and produced the
process rule book
generation in the Summer. Idea collection occurred in the Fall.
2023:
Youth and partnering organizations transformed youth-generated ideas into feasible project proposals for the ballot in the project development and voting phases. Youth cast more than 800 votes by the July 15 deadline to select five projects:
​
Young Professionals
Summer Job Fair
Youth Housing/Rental Assistance
Menstrual/Hygiene Products
Youth Art Collective
2024:
Project implementation is active through the end of 2024.
Implementing Organizations
Five collaborated with youth to design, budget, and implement projects.
​
Youth Health Services
Hey Doc Clinic
​
Housing & Homeless Services
Native American Youth & Family Center
​
Youth Public Art
Friends of Noise
​
Youth Recreation & Cultural Programs
Portland'5
​
Economic Justice
Day One Tech
Participatory Budgeting Oregon and Core Organizations Behind  YV² PB
Five core organizations (Core 5), Seeding Justice, a local foundation, and the three State Legislators signed a Declaration of Cooperation in June 2021 to launch YV² PB.
​PB Oregon We work for more participatory and just public budgeting for all Oregonians by centering the expertise and leadership of underrepresented communities.
Rosewood Initiative A place-based nonprofit that supports community-driven solutions for a healthier neighborhood. We work together with neighbors and partners to make an impact on the lives of Rosewood residents.
East County Rising Community Projects A grassroots organization energizing East Multnomah County residents to create equitable, livable communities centering underrepresented & marginalized people
Unite Oregon Led by people of color, immigrants and refugees, rural communities, and people experiencing poverty, we work across Oregon to build a unified intercultural movement for justice.
​Play Grow Learn Dedicated to healthy opportunities for sheltered and underserved youth in the community to play, grow, and learn. Initially aimed to support homeless youth, with the extended mission to serve all disenfranchised youth and families.
Please add some content in
Sliding Sidebar
block region.
For more information please refer to this tutorial page:
Add content in sliding sidebar
We work for more participatory and just public budgeting for all Oregonians by centering the expertise and leadership of underrepresented communities.
DONATE
Federal EIN: 84-4584551
Newsletter Sign Up
© 2026 Participatory Budgeting Oregon, All rights reserved.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
I agree