Source: https://www.seattle.gov/civilrights/public-participation/community-investments/participatory-budgeting
Retrieved: 2026-09-17

Seattle's Participatory Budgeting Process - CivilRights | seattle.gov
Close
Main Menu
CivilRights
File a Complaint
Public Records Request
Laws We Enforce
Resources for Businesses
Seattle Enforcement Categories
Rules & Laws
Title VI: Civil Rights Act
All-Gender Restrooms
Discrimination Resources
Who is Protected in Seattle?
Testing Program
Complaints
File a Complaint
Respond to a Discrimination Complaint
Mediation
Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act
Report Discrimination Outside of Seattle
Housing Rights
Fair Housing
Criminal History Protections
Renting Resources
Seattle's Source of Income Protection
Rules: Source of Income Protections
FAQ: Alternative Source of Income, Subsidies, and Preferred Employer Programs
Tenant Screening Rules (First-in-Time)
Do Not Solicit Ordinance
Translated Housing Resources
Public Participation
Youth Civic Engagement Program (YCEP)
Community Investments
Seattle's Participatory Budgeting Process
2025 Collective Network Request for Proposals
2023 Collective Network
2021 Collective Network
Commissions Meeting Calendar
Civil Rights - Our Work
Policy Priorities
LGBTQ Visibility Campaign
Criminal Legal System Project
Gender Justice Project
Race and Social Justice Initiative
Housing Access
Contact Us
About Us
Meet the Director
Publications
City Departments
Elected Officials
City Boards and Commissions
Media Contacts
News
Events Calendar
Seattle Office for Civil Rights Information
The Seattle Office for Civil Rights is open Monday through Thursday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. We are closed between 12:00 - 12:30pm for lunch.
Seattle Office for Civil Rights
File a Complaint
Public Records Request
Laws We Enforce
Learn about Seattle's discrimination laws.
Seattle Enforcement Categories
We enforce laws in discrimination laws in Seattle in employment, public places, housing, and contracting.
Rules & Laws
View discrimination rules and ordinances for the Seattle Office for Civil Rights.
Title VI: Civil Rights Act
Learn about the history of Title VI, what it protects, and how to file a Title VI complaint.
All-Gender Restrooms
Information about the all-gender restroom law and downloadable signs for businesses.
Discrimination Resources
Resources, information, and other external organizations for individuals to find civil rights discrimination help.
Who is Protected in Seattle
A protected class is a group of people who are legally protected from discrimination based on a characteristic. View Seattle's protected classes and examples.
Resources for Businesses
Learn how to comply with anti-discrimination laws and how to respond to a complaint.
Testing Program
Learn about testing that uncovers practices that are barriers to accessing housing and employment opportunities.
Complaints
File a complaint and find other resources for discrimination resolution.
File Complaint
File a complaint of discrimination.
Respond to a Discrimination Complaint
Answers to your business questions about illegal discrimination.
Mediation
Learn how mediation can also be used to resolve a discrimination complaint.
Title II: Americans with Disabilities Act
File a complaint or learn how we ensure accessibility and non-discrimination for individuals with disabilities in City programs, services, and activities.
Report Discrimination Outside of Seattle
Find help and resources if you have experienced discrimination outside of Seattle.
Housing Rights
Learn more about housing rights in Seattle.
Fair Housing
Learn about different types of housing discrimination.
Criminal History Protections
Understand protections for renters with criminal history.
Source of Income Protections
Seattle’s Source of Income protections aims to preserve rights of renters using alternative forms of income or subsidies.
Tenant Screening Rules
Seattle's first-in-time law.
Do Not Solicit Ordinance
Learn about Seattle's Do Not Solicit law.
Translated Housing Resources
SOCR resources in translation.
Public Participation
Participate in workgroups or commissions to provide feedback on policies that affect the civil rights of the communities you serve
Community Investments
Information about participatory budgeting, a democratic process, where community members decide how to spend allocated public funding.
Commissions Meeting Calendar
Event calendar for Seattle’s Disability Commission, LGBTQ Commission, Human Rights Commission, and Women’s Commission.
Seattle Women's Commission
The role of the Seattle Women's Commission is to effectively identify and recommend policy, legislation, programs, and budget items concerning women to the ...
Seattle LGBTQ Commission
The Seattle Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) Commission advises the Mayor, City Council and City departments about issues of concern ...
Seattle Disability Commission
The Seattle Disability Commission (formerly the Seattle Commission for People with disAbilities) advises the Mayor, City Council, and City departments about ...
Seattle Human Rights Commission
The Seattle Human Rights Commission was established in 1963 to advocate for justice and equal opportunity, to advise the City of Seattle on human rights issues, ...
Our Work
Learn about SOCR projects and initiatives.
LGBTQ Visibility Campaign
Campaign aimed at bringing visibility to Seattle’s diverse LGBTQ community members.
Criminal Legal System Project
Find out more about our work on the Criminal Legal System Project.
Gender Justice Project
The goal of the Gender Justice Project is to achieve gender equity within Seattle City government, and to work with the private sector to achieve gender equity ...
Race and Social Justice Initiative
The Race and Social Justice Initiative (RSJI) is a citywide initiative to end institutional racism in City government and to achieve racial equity.
Housing Access
Learn about how we're working to ensure communities of color have equitable access to housing.
Contact Us
Home
Public Participation
Community Investments
Seattle's Participatory Budgeting Process
Participatory budgeting invites community members to develop ideas and vote on how to spend a portion of the city's budget, with a focus on ensuring historically marginalized communities have a voice in the process.
In 2020 after the protests following the murder of George Floyd, the City of Seattle embarked on a new $27.25 million participatory budgeting process to address public safety and community needs, particularly for Black, Indigenous, and People of Color. In 2024, the following community-selected projects were authorized for implementation as part of the City of Seattle's 2025-2026 budget.
Approved Projects
Mental Health Crisis Response ($2 M):
Funding will expand the Community Assisted Response & Engagement (CARE) Department to increase qualified mental and behavioral health specialists as first responders.
Urban Farming and Food Equity ($4 M):
The Department of Neighborhoods in partnership with the Office of Sustainability and Environment will activate two publicly owned greenspaces to lease for urban agriculture and support food equity programs.
Native-Focused Youth and Community Center ($7.2 M):
The Office of Planning and Community Development will support the creation of a community-owned and operated center focused on Duwamish cultural education and recreation for youth.
Community-Operated Restrooms ($2.2 M):
Seattle Parks and Recreation will partner with community to enhance cleanliness and safety of public restrooms.
Arts and Cultural Preservation Programs ($4.69 M):
The Seattle Office of Arts and Culture will activate spaces, provide programs, or create media focused on arts, culture, history, or heritage focusing on Black, Indigenous, and People of Color.
Homeowner Stabilization ($3 M):
The Seattle Office of Housing will use funds for outreach, engagement, and homeowner stabilization services in communities at high risk of displacement.
Young Adult Day Center ($2 M):
The Human Services Department will support a community-led young adult day center connecting 18 to 25-year-olds to resources, social services, counseling, meals, computer access, and job-finding supports.
Youth and Young Adult Emergency Shelter Capital Fund ($1.85 M):
In collaboration with the King County Regional Homelessness Authority, the Human Services Department will fund vital enhancements, modifications, and repairs to youth shelters.
Youth Violence Prevention Programs ($315 K):
The Human Services Department will fund community-led organizations providing afterschool programs, youth leadership opportunities, and sports.
Next Steps
Eight City departments listed above will implement projects through competitive grants or within existing lines of business beginning early 2025. Grant opportunities and project updates will be posted this page as more information about each project becomes available.
December 10 Press Release: Seattle’s 2025-2026 Budget Authorizes $27.25 Million to Implement Participatory Budgeting Projects
<
Transparency
History
Our Commitment to Transparency
Our vision at the Seattle Office for Civil Rights is a city of thriving and powerful communities that foster shared healing and belonging. We understand that healing cannot happen without full transparency and honesty to the communities we serve.
Our mission is to uphold civil rights and end structural racism in city government through accountable community relationships and anti-racist organizing, policy development, and civil rights enforcement. We understand that we cannot be true to our mission without upholding a participatory budgeting program that repairs the harm experienced by Black community and staff.
We commit to openness, authenticity, integrity, collaboration, and thoughtful planning throughout the process of supporting the participatory budgeting program. Further, we acknowledge the valid criticisms that exist on the transparency that the City has displayed throughout this process and how that has caused significant harm, especially to Black, Indigenous, and people of color communities. The Office for Civil Rights’ commitment is to offer access to information; that members of the communities most impacted by racism, oppression, and colonization hold the right to see how this process works, how and by whom decisions are made, and how decisions will affect them.
In September 2020, Seattle City Council designated $3 million for research by the Black Brilliance Research Project on how to address public safety for communities disproportionately affected by police violence and systemic racism.
The report
, released in 2021, recommended implementing a participatory budgeting process to create an inclusive process that interrupts harm and follows Black leadership by co-creating investment strategies with community members within the following five focus areas:
Housing and physical spaces
including diverse housing options and Black-led residential and commercial spaces
Mental health
, including with culturally responsive health services led by people with lived experience who receive equitable pay for their services
Youth and children
, including child care and out-of-school time support for youth most impacted by systemic violence and trauma
Economic development
that creates pathways to business ownership and generational wealth
Crisis and wellness strategies
, including community-led alternatives to the current 911 and crisis response system
FAQs
What is Participatory Budgeting (PB)?
What is Participatory Budgeting (PB)?
Participatory budgeting is a democratic process, where communities and members of the public decide how to spend allocated public funding. PB allows those generally left out and marginalized from budgetary conversations to have a voice in the process.
Graphic from
Participatory Budgeting Project
.
Where else has Participatory Budgeting been done?
Where else has participatory budgeting been done?
Seattle is not the first city to utilize a participatory budgeting process. Other cities across the United States have implemented participatory budgeting to make investment decisions in education, community development, housing, and other areas. Learn more about participatory budgeting taking place in other jurisdictions using the links below:
King County, WA
Participatory Budgeting Project
New York City, NY
Cambridge, MA
Boston, MA
Where does the PB funding come from?
Where does the PB funding come from?
Seattle City Council designated $30 million from the City’s general fund in 2020 for this PB process. This included a $2.75 million allocation to identify a third-party administrator to develop community-informed proposals and run the voting process.
Timeline
2015
The City of Seattle launches its first participatory budgeting process in the Department of Neighborhoods (DON).
2020
Nationwide protests demand police accountability and greater investments in Black communities and those most impacted by police violence. The City of Seattle allocates $3 million in Black-led research to explore community-led solutions to community safety and wellbeing, which recommends PB as a potential solution.
2021
Seattle City Council designates $30 million to expand the PB process, which included $2.75 million to identify a third-party administrator to develop community-informed proposals and run the voting process. This PB process is moved from the Department of Neighborhoods to the Office for Civil Rights. SOCR releases a Request for Proposal to identify the third-party administrator.
2022
The Participatory Budgeting Project is selected as the third-party administrator. Teams are assembled to advise on work, facilitate community engagement, and support feasibility of the projects that would be developed.
2023
Community members co-design proposals for the PB ballot, and a voting process is conducted, which yields six winning projects.
2024
SOCR convenes City departments and community members to develop plans for how the winning priorities can be implemented. Legislation authorizing funding for the proposed projects is transmitted to Seattle City Council. Projects are approved as part of the City's 2025-2026 budget.
Contact us
John Page, Director of Community Investments
Phone:
(206) 817-9318
Email:
john.page@seattle.gov
No left sidebar
About Us
Meet the Director
Publications
Civil Rights
Derrick Wheeler-Smith, Director
Address:
810 3rd Avenue , Suite 750, Seattle, WA, 98104-1627
Phone:
(206) 684-4500
Fax:
(206) 684-0332
Email:
CivilRights@seattle.gov
Sign Up for Latest Updates
Subscribe
Citywide Information
Elected Officials
Open Data Portal
Public Records
City Holidays and Closures
City Event Calendar
City Newsletters
Departments & Offices
Boards & Commissions
Popular Pages
Seattle Enforcement Categories
Fair Housing
File Complaint
Criminal History Protections
The Seattle Office for Civil Rights (SOCR) works to advance civil rights and end barriers to equity. We enforce laws against illegal discrimination in employment, housing, public places, and contracting within Seattle.
Policies
About Our Digital Properties
Privacy Policy
Title II: Americans with Disabilities Act
Title VI: Civil Rights Act
Sitemap