Source: https://www.portland.gov/council/documents/ordinance/passed/192207
Retrieved: 2026-09-17

192207 | Portland.gov
Skip to main content
important alert
danger
State closes I-5 southbound at Rose Quarter for 5 weeks starting Sept. 11
Plan for major delays. More at
i5rosequarter.org
. Visit
Shift Your Trip
to keep Portland moving.
informational alert
information
Portland is a Sanctuary City
Learn more
.
Search
Search
Search
search
close
Menu
General information
Advisory groups
Groups, boards, and commissions.
Bureaus and offices
City departments.
Calendar of events
Events, public meetings, and hearings.
Charter, code, policies
Official City documents.
City council
Districts, officials, meetings, and news.
Construction projects
Building, transportation, maintenance, and sewer projects.
Find a park
Parks, facilities, and reservations.
Neighborhoods
Neighborhood directory.
News
Articles, blogs, press releases, public notices, and newsletters.
Projects
Planning, outreach and education, strategic, and technology projects.
Services and resources
Service and resource directory.
Jobs with the City
Opportunities posted to governmentjobs.com
Home
Portland City Council
Council documents
Ordinance
192207
Label:
Ordinance
Adopt a Supplemental Budget for FY 2026-27 to reduce potential risks to City services
Passed
Amended by Council
The City of Portland ordains.
Section 1. The Council finds:
The Council adopted the City's FY 2026-27 budget on June 17, 2026.
After Council took an initial vote on the now-adopted budget, there was information that was more fully developed that is the basis for supplementing the 2026-27 fiscal year (FY) adopted budget.
The Council desires to provide support for employees facing layoffs by appropriating $515,801 to extend their employment and benefits. Affected personnel will be placed on paid administrative leave through September 1, with benefits extended through September 30, 2026. Additional information regarding potential gaps in services during this period was not fully ascertained at the time of adoption of the 2026-27 budget.
The Council desires to strengthen the City's fiscal stability and credit rating by appropriating $1.75 million to the Business License Tax Reserve Fund. Council moved $2.5 million from this fund to PF&R to restore Engine 22 in St. Johns in the Approved FY 2026-27 budget. It was recently more fully ascertained that particular reserve funds impact the City's credit rating.
The Council desires to avoid certain imminent layoffs and reductions that provide critical services for our community. There is now a different understanding of the greater risk associated with certain layoffs that was not ascertained at the time of adoption of the budget.
The Council desires that Portland Police Bureau provide important training to its members. As a result of more fully developed information, Council now better ascertains the scope of training that would not be available if additional funding were not provided for this purpose.
Given the above and the more fully developed information, there are unascertained conditions or occurrences or pressing unforeseen necessities to prepare a supplemental budget for the 2026-27 budget.
This supplemental budget will appropriate $9.96 million in General Fund Contingency and $2.25 million from other funds to preserve 30 positions across the city, restore cuts to critical public safety functions, extend benefits to all laid off employees through September 30, 2026, and return $1.75 million to the Business License Tax (BLT) Reserve Fund that was reduced by previous Council action.
Appropriations described in Exhibit A include $1.118 million for Public Safety Support Specialist (8 FTE and 6 vehicles); $3 million for PPB EM&S (training, certifications, and professional development); $248,000 for PPB Desk Clerks (maintaining public access to precincts); $1.65 million for PF&R (3 two-person rescue units); $408,856 for 311 Customer Service Representatives (2 FTE to maintain current service level); $261,000 for Relay Resource (janitorial contract for city office spaces); and $3.26 million in targeted position restorations identified by both labor and the administration as posing significant risk if not continued for an additional year.
When anticipated funds from underspending, interest accruals, and other resources develop in the spring technical adjustment ordinance period in FY 2026-27, the funds will be used to restore the General Fund Contingency in the amount of $9.96 million.
The Council notes that recent history indicates that it is reasonable to expect significant underspending. The City Budget Office's preliminary estimates for the recently concluded 2025-26 fiscal year are shown in Exhibit D (which CBO cautions are preliminary and subject to change in final reconciliation).
Exhibit B, attached, shows all position changes.
Exhibit C, attached, shows General Fund allocations in the FY 2026-27 Adopted Budget, by bureau.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Council directs:
The FY 2026-27 Appropriation Schedule is hereby amended by adjusting appropriations for certain expenditures in various funds as indicated by the increases and decreases presented in Exhibit A.
The number of authorized positions in the FY 2026-27 Revised Budget is hereby amended as presented in Exhibit B.
The City Budget Office is directed to file a supplemental budget by April 1, 2027, to restore General Fund Contingency and add $1.75 million to the Business License Tax Reserve Fund by reallocating available underspending and PCEF interest as determined by City Budget Office. The City Budget Office will initially consider spending that has occurred throughout the fiscal year and expected expenses for the remainder of the fiscal year.
The actions amending the FY 2026-27 Revised Budget contained in this ordinance are binding City policy.
Official record (Efiles)
Ordinance, supplemental documents, and testimony
An ordinance when passed by the Council shall be signed by the Auditor. It shall be carefully filed and preserved
            in the custody of the Auditor (City Charter Chapter 2 Article 1 Section 2-122)
Passed as amended by Council
July 22, 2026
Auditor of the City of Portland
Simone Rede
Impact Statement
Purpose of proposed legislation and background information
This supplemental budget ordinance amends the FY 2026-27 budget to use anticipated underspend in general fund bureaus, or accrued interest in the Portland Clean Energy Fund should that underspend not materialize, to provide one-time funding for essential services across the City, including public safety, operations, and parks. This ordinance maintains critical public safety support services, including the restoration of three rescue teams in Portland Fire & Rescue in Districts 1 and 3, a Community Engagement Specialist in Portland Parks & Recreation focused on East Portland Parks, and Public Safety Support Specialists (PS3s), which will enable members of the public to receive a quicker response to issues that do not require a sworn officer. Overall, this package restores 30 positions that would otherwise have been eliminated in the Mayor's proposed budget. It also aims to shore up the City's financial stability and credit rating by appropriating $1.75 million to the Business License Tax Reserve Fund. It further extends employment and benefits for employees facing layoffs, helping ensure a smooth transition for both staff and service delivery.
Since adoption of the budget on June 18, 2026, councilors gained additional information about risks within the Adopted Budget and a clearer understanding of how to mitigate them by adopting targeted changes. This ordinance was developed following hours of testimony from the public, City staff, and subject matter experts, and after in-depth conversations with labor unions whose members have faced uncertainty about their positions at the City. This and other information demonstrated a pressing need to restore the positions and programs identified in this legislation.
Financial and budgetary impacts
This supplemental budget will appropriate $9.96 million in General Fund Contingency and $2.25 million from other funds to preserve 30 positions across the city, restore cuts to critical public safety functions, extend benefits to all laid off employees through September 30, and return $1.75 million to the Business License Tax (BLT) Reserve Fund that was reduced by previous Council action. Details of appropriations and changes in FTE can be seen in Exhibits A and B, respectively.
Economic and real estate development impacts
Ensuring the City has a continuum of public safety services is essential to its economic prosperity and provides confidence to business owners, institutions, and the public at large that their investments in Portland are secure. Additionally, remaining in good standing with credit rating agencies is an important signal that the City is committed to improving its financial stability. Nothing in this legislation is expected to create adverse effects for business or real estate development in the City of Portland.
Community impacts and community involvement
This ordinance was developed following hours of testimony from the public, City staff, and subject matter experts on the FY 2026-27 budget. This testimony demonstrated a pressing need to restore the positions and programs identified in this legislation. There was other information that was not fully ascertained at the time when Council adopted the budget that influenced the need for this amendment to the budget.
The ordinance is also responsive to conversations with labor unions, whose members have faced uncertainty throughout the budget development process and who have raised concerns about continuity of service related to the positions identified for restoration.
This ordinance will have a positive impact on communities across Portland. The restoration of three rescue teams in Portland Fire & Rescue is particularly important to District 1, as is the restoration of the Portland Parks & Recreation Community Engagement Specialist focused on East Portland Parks. The restoration of Public Safety Support Specialists (PS3s) will enable members of the public to get quicker response to issues that do not require a sworn officer without diverting sworn officers from higher urgency calls. In total the restorations identified will result in better service delivery for Portlanders.
100% renewable goal
Not applicable.
Budgetary impact worksheet
See Exhibit A and Exhibit B.
Economic and real estate development analysis
Analysis provided by Prosper Portland
Prosper Portland staff has reviewed the Economic and Real Estate Development Impact Analysis submitted for this action and finds that it satisfies the requirements set forth in City Council Resolution 37664. The analysis is sufficiently detailed and complete to be considered a final statement for purposes of this action.
Document history
Document number:
2026-223
President's referral:
City Council
Agenda
Council action
July 15, 2026
Regular agenda
City Council
Continued as amended
Motion to amend the Ordinance and add Exhibits C and D as shown in Dunphy 1: Moved by Dunphy and seconded by Novick. (Aye (8): Koyama Lane, Morillo, Novick, Green, Avalos, Kanal, Pirtle-Guiney, Dunphy; Nay (4): Clark, Zimmerman, Smith, Ryan)
Motion to amend the Ordinance and Exhibits A and B as shown in Koyama Lane-Kanal 1: Moved by Koyama Lane and seconded by Kanal.
Request by Koyama Lane to divide Koyama Lane-Kanal 1 to consider the Senior Center Project, the International Relations Program, and the Ceasefire Coordinator separately.
Vote called on Senior Center Project: (Aye (6): Koyama Lane, Morillo, Green, Avalos, Kanal, Dunphy; Nay (6): Novick, Clark, Zimmerman, Smith, Pirtle-Guiney, Ryan). Motion failed to pass.
Vote called on International Relations Program: (Aye (6): Koyama Lane, Morillo, Green, Avalos, Kanal, Dunphy; Nay (6): Novick, Clark, Zimmerman, Smith, Pirtle-Guiney, Ryan). Motion failed to pass.
Vote called on Ceasefire Coordinator: (Aye (6): Koyama Lane, Morillo, Green, Avalos, Kanal, Dunphy; Nay (6): Novick, Clark, Zimmerman, Smith, Pirtle-Guiney, Ryan). Motion failed to pass.
Continued as amended to July 16, 2026 at 2:00 pm
July 16, 2026
Regular agenda
City Council
Passed to second reading as amended
Passed to second reading as amended July 22, 2026 at 9:30 am
July 22, 2026
Regular agenda
City Council
Passed as amended
Votes
Aye (10):
Morillo
Novick
Clark
Green
Zimmerman
Smith
Kanal
Pirtle-Guiney
Ryan
Dunphy
Nay (2):
Koyama Lane
Avalos
Document number
2026-223
Introduced by
Councilor Elana Pirtle-Guiney
Councilor Steve Novick
Council Vice President Olivia Clark
Councilor Loretta Smith
Contact
Spencer Knowles
Chief of Staff - Councilor Novick, District 3
email
spencer.knowles@portlandoregon.gov
phone number
971-710-5484
Megan Beyer
Senior Policy Advisor
email
megan.beyer@portlandoregon.gov
phone number
503-865-6667
Elijah Crawford
Chief of Staff
email
elijah.crawford@portlandoregon.gov
Devin Mullins
Chief of Staff, Councilor Elana Pirtle-Guiney
email
devin.mullins@portlandoregon.gov
Agenda type
Regular
Date and time information
Meeting date
July 22, 2026
Amount of time requested
50 minutes
Portland Policy Document
See something we could improve on this page?
Give website feedback
.
The City of Portland ensures meaningful access to City programs, services, and activities to comply with Civil Rights Title VI and ADA Title II laws and reasonably provides: translation, interpretation, modifications, accommodations, alternative formats, auxiliary aids and services.
Request an ADA accommodation
or call
503-823-4000
, Relay Service:
711
.
503-823-4000
Traducción e Interpretación | Biên Dịch và Thông Dịch | 口笔译服务 | Устный и письменный перевод | Turjumaad iyo Fasiraad | Письмовий і усний переклад | Traducere și interpretariat | Chiaku me Awewen Kapas | अनुवादन तथा व्याख्या
Explore all services
arrow right
Contact information
email
311@portlandoregon.gov
phone number
311
Information and customer service
phone number
503-823-4000
Oregon Relay Service
711
Oregon Relay Service
Follow on social media
PortlandORGov
PortlandGov
PortlandGov
Terms and policies
ADA accommodation
Captioning and transcription
Privacy policy
Portland.gov
About this website
Employee portal
Editor log in
City of Portland, Oregon
© Copyright 2018-2026
Back to top