Source: https://www.oregonmetro.gov/stories/26-million-grants
Retrieved: 2026-09-17

Metro Council awards more than $26 million in parks and nature grants | Metro
Skip to main content
collapse all
Events
News and stories
Tools and data
Contact
Language hub
Metro logo, to the homepage
Open menu
Close menu
What Metro does
show menu
hide menu
What Metro does
Projects
Connecting regional priorities
Garbage and recycling system
Housing and homelessness
Land use and development
Parks and nature investments
Transportation
Tools and data
Visitor venues
Get involved
show menu
hide menu
Get involved
Give your input
Committees
Find funding
Public engagement
Waste disposal and prevention
show menu
hide menu
Waste disposal and prevention
Need to get rid of something?
Healthy living and waste reduction
Report dumped garbage
Education resources
Parks and nature
show menu
hide menu
Parks and nature
Parks
Boat ramps
Cemeteries
Guided nature activities
Reservations and services
Safety and policies
About Metro
show menu
hide menu
About Metro
Metro Council
Metro Auditor
MERC
Structure and operations
Civil rights at Metro
Metro Code
Accessibility at Metro
Equity at Metro
Doing business with Metro
Public records
Jobs
Events
News and stories
Tools and data
Contact
Language hub
Search
Search
Open search
Close search
Search
Search
Breadcrumb
Home
Stories
Metro Council awards more than $26 million in p...
Story series
2026 parks and nature grants
Metro grants support parks and nature projects across greater Portland
Part 1 of 5
Metro Council awards more than $26 million in parks and nature grants
Part 2
Community Choice Grants
Helen Althaus Park in Troutdale received a $212,000 grant from Metro to improve access, reduce wood debris and ground fuels and improve the health of a stand of western red cedars.
By Hannah Erickson
July 21, 2026
Bylined articles are written by Metro staff and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Metro or the Metro Council.
Learn more
Metro awards funds to 48 parks and nature projects across greater Portland.
Editor's note: An earlier version of this story reported that 42 different projects were awarded. This story has been updated to correct the number of different projects awarded, which is 48.
Today Metro Council awarded more than $26 million to 48 different parks and nature projects and programs across the region. It was the largest amount of funding and the most projects Metro has awarded in one day through its parks and nature grant programs.
Awardees range from nature education programs to a project to remove a dam that prevents fish passage in Gresham. The grants were funded by Metro's parks and nature bond and parks and nature levy, both of which voters approved.
“The nature around us is our region’s greatest treasure, and it is the duty of each generation to preserve and protect it for the next,” said Metro Council President Juan Carlos González. “Thanks to voters, Metro will support dozens of new initiatives that span the region. These projects will do so much—expand green space, restore waterways, support community gardens and farms, create opportunities for young people to learn and play. I’m so proud of the ways we as an agency both create and build upon this legacy of stewardship.”
The approvals took place during a special session held at Concord Community Center in Milwaukie. The location of the special session was significant: One grant program being awarded was Metro’s Nature in Neighborhoods Community Choice grant, which was focused on Clackamas County during this grant cycle.
This innovative program allows any community member to propose a parks and nature project, which are then chosen by community members in an online vote. In total, 23 projects received $3 million in grants.
"I love the creativity and variety we see with Community Choice grants,” said Metro Councilor Christine Lewis, who represents much of the county. “Whether it’s a ‘roosting chimney’ for swifts, nature-play areas, accessible river paths or interpretive displays, each project creates space for people to connect with nature and community.”
Four other Metro parks and nature grants programs awarded grants.
Large-scale Community Visions Grants: $8 million to four projects
Nature in Neighborhoods Capital Grants: $9.8 million to eight projects
Nature in Neighborhoods Community Stewardship and Restoration Grants: $750,000 to 10 projects and programs
Protect and Restore Land Program’s community-led acquisitions: up to $4.45 million
Grants were awarded to projects and programs across the region. For more details on grants by location, see the "2026 Parks and Nature grants map" PDF.
2026 Parks and Nature grants map
PDF
3.03 MB
July 29, 2026
Several projects received multiple grants, including a major project to remove an earthen dam on Kelly Creek. The dam lies on Mt. Hood Community College’s campus in Gresham and blocks salmon from the upper reaches of the creek.
“We have wind in our sails thanks to Metro,” said Kelley Beamer, executive director of East Multnomah County Soil and Water Conservation District. “Metro has been an amazing partner through the years.”
The dam removal received $4.5 million between two grants, one from the Nature in Neighborhoods Capital Grant program and the other from the Large-Scale Community Visions program. Both grants came from the 2019 parks and nature bond, which was approved by voters.
All this funding is made possible by voters choosing to invest in nature through Metro’s parks and nature bond and levy.
Large-Scale Community Visions
This funding supports large-scale, publicly-owned capital projects inspired by community visions for the future. It is funded through the 2019 parks and nature bond.
Kelly Creek dam removal, Gresham: $2.5 million
This cornerstone project removes a 60-year-old earthen dam across what was once a salmon-bearing creek feeding into the Sandy River. This project replaces the dam with a bridge to reconnect habitat, improve water quality, expand access to nature through an accessible trail, and provide workforce training opportunities. It will leverage and amplify decades of investment in the Sandy River watershed by restoring habitat, increasing climate resilience, and reconnecting people with a stream forgotten since 1968. Note: This project is also receiving funds from the Nature in Neighborhoods Capital Grants program.
Working Theory Farm Project, Hillsboro: $3 million
This project will acquire working farmland, protecting an invaluable ‘farm park’ for habitat, nature access, and active community programs in rapidly urbanizing South Hillsboro.
Ash Creek Nature Link, Tigard: $1.5 million
This project provides funding to the City of Tigard to expand public green space, restore wetlands, and improve walking and biking connections to affordable housing, jobs, and regional destinations.
East Portland Nature Center, Portland: $1 million
This project provides the Bird Alliance of Oregon with funds toward a project to transform a former brownfield into a community-designed nature park with improved transit access, trails, and habitat that strengthens neighborhood connectivity and climate resilience.
Nature in Neighborhoods Capital Grants
These grants fund a wide variety of projects. The program provides three-year grants to projects led by community organizations, park providers, local governments and other organizations. The grants are for publicly owned capital projects. They are funded through the 2019 parks and nature bond.
City of Hillsboro: $116,000
The city is developing an accessible nature play area at Evergreen Park. The approximately 10,000 square foot area will feature natural fallen trees, exposed root wads, snags, native vegetation, access to water through a water table (play equipment), native soil, sand, rocks, and logs, creating a nature-based experience with plenty of room to explore, yet with well-defined boundaries.
City of Milwaukie: $1.77 million
Milwaukie Bay Park will provide important enhancements for cooling and naturally improved water quality in a diverse, walkable neighborhood. Amenities include a natural amphitheater, nature-based play area and increased tree canopy. Note: This project is also receiving funding from the Nature in Neighborhoods Community Choice Grants program.
City of Oregon City: $1.54 million
The city is transforming 2.26 acres of underutilized parkland at Clackamette Park into resilient natural space with improved river access and filtered stormwater runoff at the confluence of the Clackamas and Willamette Rivers. This project will remove the existing RV park and replace it with open lawn space, river access, pathways and native plantings. Note: This project is also receiving funding from the Nature in Neighborhoods Community Choice Grants program.
City of Troutdale: $212,294
The city is rehabilitating Helen Althaus Park to improve access, reduce the buildup of wood debris and ground fuels, and improve the health of a beautiful stand of mature western red cedars. The project reduces the spread of invasive plants and re-plants natives that promote bird and insect biodiversity.
City of Tualatin: $2 million
The Downtown Tualatin Riverfront Park project restores six acres along the Tualatin River. This funding supports completing the regional trail running through the park. The Tualatin River Greenway Trail provides inclusive river access, walking and biking connections, and educational opportunities, creating a resilient, nature-rich space that benefits the community. In 2024, the City of Tualatin used funding from its allocation of Metro’s 2019 parks and nature bond’s Local Share program to purchase the land to help complete this trail.
Mount Hood Community College, Gresham: $2 million
This cornerstone project removes a 60-year-old earthen dam across what was once a salmon-bearing creek feeding into the Sandy River. It will leverage and amplify decades of investment in the Sandy River watershed by restoring habitat, increasing climate resilience, and reconnecting people with a stream forgotten since 1968. Note: This project is also receiving funds from the Large-Scale Community Visions program.
Oregon Wildlife Heritage Foundation, Portland: $250,000
This project will restore and enhance 20 acres within Marquam Nature Park, a 200-acre urban natural area in Southwest Portland with extensive trails and heavy public use. Years of informal trail creation and high visitor traffic have damaged habitat and soil. This project will close unsustainable trails, stabilize soils, and replant native, climate-resilient vegetation to improve habitat quality and connectivity. A limited number of new or realigned trails will provide safe, sustainable access while concentrating use along engineered routes designed to reduce ecological impacts. Permanent drainage and erosion-control features, along with interpretive infrastructure, will further protect natural resources and enhance visitor understanding of the park’s ecological and cultural significance.
World Forestry Center, Portland: $2 million
World Forestry Center is renovating its campus into a welcoming, year-round community space that strengthens access to nature and connection across Washington Park. The project will replace extensive hardscape in the central plaza with native and culturally significant landscaping, incorporate flexible gathering areas, art, and interpretive features that integrate Indigenous traditional ecological knowledge and regional ecology. The project also includes wayfinding and restored trail connections that link the campus directly to the Marquam Trail and surrounding park systems.
Nature in Neighborhoods Community Choice
These grants fund a wide range of parks and nature projects that were imagined by, developed with and voted on by community members. The grants are for publicly owned capital projects. They are funded through the 2019 parks and nature bond. Each grant cycle focuses on a different Metro district, and this cycle focused on District 2 (parts of Clackamas County).
River Access at Milwaukie Bay Park, Milwaukie: $166,400
Create a safe and accessible river entry point with a gathering space for enjoying the water. Note: This project is also receiving a Nature in Neighborhoods Capital Grant.
Accessible River Experience at Clackamette, Oregon City: $140,317
Improve accessibility and create a scenic riverfront path with seating, art, and interpretive features at the river confluence. Note: This project is also receiving a Nature in Neighborhoods Capital Grant.
Milwaukie Neighborhood Swift Roost, Milwaukie: $164,767
Preserve swift habitat by protecting a roosting chimney, adding native plantings, and supporting a cherished community wildlife experience.
Indigenous Art at the Mouth of the Clackamas, Oregon City: $52,000
Celebrate the cultural significance of the river confluence through art installations and interpretive signage.
Nature Play and Habitat at Clackamette, Oregon City: $157,117
Add nature-based play features, including an interactive water play area and educational elements connected by accessible paths with native plantings.
Habitat Restoration at Spring Park, Milwaukie: $70,900
Restore habitat by removing invasive species, planting native vegetation, and improving forest health and trail conditions.
Treat Stormwater above Kellogg Creek, Milwaukie: $158,600
Improve stream health and fish habitat while creating educational opportunities through upgraded outfalls.
Nature Skate at Water Tower Park, Milwaukie: $160,433
Combine small-scale skate features with habitat restoration and stormwater improvements.
Meldrum Bar Restoration, Gladstone: $93,167
Restore river habitat and add trails, seating, and interpretive signage to connect people with the river's ecology and cultural history.
Access to Minthorn Wetlands, Milwaukie: $166,667
Improve access to wetlands with new connections and signage highlighting the site's ecological value and cultural history.
Stream and Garden Improvements at End of the Oregon Trail Park, Oregon City: $119,083
Restore landscapes and gardens while adding interpretive features that connect ecology, history, and community use.
Trail and Habitat Improvements at Rivervilla Park, NCPRD: $95,517
Complete a short trail loop by extending existing walking trails, while restoring habitat by mitigating emerald ash borer impacts.
Risley Refresh, NCPRD: $165,800
Create a nature-based play area with interactive features and native plantings to support play and wildlife observation.
Adaptive river Access at Riverside Park, Clackamas River Water: $160,333
Create an accessible river access point with improved habitat and paths for people of all abilities.
Restore Furnberg Wetlands, Milwaukie: $140,583
Restore wetlands by removing invasive species and improving trails and boardwalks for wildlife viewing and exploration.
Natural Shade at Max Patterson Park, Gladstone: $95,867
Add trees and nature-based shade structures to create a cooler and more comfortable park environment.
Inclusive Nature Play in Chapin, Oregon City: $135,667
Enhance a playground with shade trees, rain gardens, and native plantings to support pollinators, manage stormwater, and create a more comfortable play environment.
Accessible Nature Skate at 70th and Monroe, NCPRD: $163,000
Support the creation of a new community park by supporting skatable elements integrated into a park setting with native plantings and green stormwater infrastructure.
Shade for the Clackamas North Bank, Gladstone: $98,033
Plant shade trees and native vegetation to improve habitat and comfort along the river.
Shade for the Clackamas River Southbank, Clackamas County WES: $101,367
Plant trees, restore native vegetation, and improve trails along the river corridor.
Educational Pollinator Garden, Oregon City: $124,900
Create a small habitat area with native plants and features to support pollinators and wildlife.
Neighborhood Greenspace in Sunnyside, NCPRD: $115,883
Help create a new park by contributing native pollinator plantings, pocket forests, and rain gardens.
Inclusive Nature Play at Rivercrest, Oregon City: $153,600
Enhance an inclusive play area with nature play features, accessible paths, and seating for families and caregivers.
Nature in Neighborhoods Community Stewardship and Restoration Grants
This grants program supports community-led partnerships, education and stewardship programs to offer hands-on experiences that allow people to strengthen their relationship to the natural world while also fostering the next generation of leaders. These grants are funded through the parks and nature levy.
Black Futures Farm HEAP: Healing, Education, Afroecology, and Permaculture, Black Futures Farm: $100,000
This project supports the work of Black Futures Farm, which is a Black-centered, urban agricultural space working to reconnect Black people to the land and inspire all people to create meaningful change through food, knowledge, culture and outdoor experiences. Project partners: Black Futures Farm, Feed'Em Freedom Foundation, Wonderfolk, The Uprise Collective
H.E.A.L. Garden: Heritage, Ecology, and Allied Legacies, The Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization: $100,000
This project will unite members of Metro’s Indigenous, Latinx and Slavic/Eastern European communities to create an accessible, multicultural community garden and events that foster a resilient community identity rooted in care for the land and each other. Project partners: The Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization, Metro, Wisdom of the Elders, Ed Edmo, Olesya Uglova Soul-Body-Mind LLC, EarthyBirth LLC, City of Portland Bureau of Environmental Sustainability
Learning Gardens Lab Community Partnerships: Agroecology & Land Stewardship Internship and Certificate Program, Learning Gardens Laboratory: $99,946
This project is a collaboration between Learning Gardens Laboratory, Solarpunx, and Portland State University's Indigenous Traditional Ecological & Cultural Knowledge Center and will co-create a paid internship and certificate program. This pilot removes economic barriers to workforce development, restores native habitats, and expands community access to land and traditional First Foods. Project partners: Learning Gardens Laboratory, Solarpunx PDX, Portland State University's Indigenous Traditional Ecological & Cultural Knowledge Center
GoFishPI Program: Get Out and Fish with Living Islands 2026, Living Islands: $100,000
This project engages Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander communities in culturally rooted fishing camps and excursions that inspire environmental stewardship, food sovereignty and responsible, sustainable use of Oregon waterways. Project partners: Living Islands, Oregon State University College of Science Director of Equity and Access Kameron Kadooka, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife Antonio Salgado, City of Portland SuperFund Education Miranda Mishan, Portland Harbor Community Coalition Cassie Cohen
Youth Growing Food and Community at Kindness Farm, Northwest Youth Corps: $45,057
This project gives 56 Portland teens and leaders the opportunity to promote food sovereignty for historically marginalized communities through six weeks of activities at Kindness Farm. For their service, participants earn money, high school credit and a solid work reference. Project partners: Northwest Youth Corps, Kindness Farm, Girl’s Inc. of the PNW, David Douglas High School, Dharma Rain Zen Center
Dharma Rain Food Forest, Northwest Zen Sangha: $40,000
This project will offer a series of classes and workshops for underserved populations. Events will take place on Northwest Zen Sangha’s four-acre campus. Learning activities will combine habitat restoration with regenerative agriculture practices. Project partners: Northwest Zen Sangha, Blueprint Foundation, Northwest Youth Corps, Bird Alliance of Oregon
New Columbia Community Stewardship Project, Our Village Gardens: $29,997
This project will improve wildlife habitat by removing invasive species and planting healthy ones, while working with partners to expand economic and environmental equity by connecting residents to Indigenous workshops, a leadership academy and career pathways. Project partners: Our Village Gardens, Boys and Girls Club of Portland Metro, INCIGHT, Earth & Spirit Council
PIM Plant Plaza and Ecoroof, Portland Indigenous Marketplace: $75,000
This project will transform a 2500-square-foot parking lot to create a resilient and welcoming plaza with native plants, shade trees, living systems, Indigenous arts and interpretive displays, as well as install an ecoroof. Project partners: Knot Studio, KPFF, Depave, Wombyns Wellness Garden, PSU Indigenous Nations Studies, Advanced Tribal, EPA-Philanthropy NW, Oregon Comm Foundation, Collins Foundation, Travel Portland, Oregon DLCD, PCEF, Rowena Jackson & Arusha Dittmer (Indigenous artists)
POIC Natural Resource Pathway Program, Portland Opportunities Industrialization Center Inc.: $60,000
POIC’s Natural Resource Pathway programs offer low-income youth and youth of color opportunities to engage in habitat restoration and conservation and to pursue career-track natural resource mentorship and education. Project partners: As a member of the Branch Coalition, POIC is partnered with Friends of Trees, Portland Parks & Recreation, Portland Fruit Tree Project, the City of Portland’s Bureau of Environmental Services, Columbia Slough Watershed Council, and all other Branch Coalition members
Food Sovereignty Practices Through a Disability Justice Lens, The Uprise Collective: $100,000
This project uses cultural ecological knowledge, community partnerships and food sovereignty practices through a disability justice lens to create accessible garden spaces for food and traditional medicine, as well as creating opportunities for food cultivation, preparation and preservation. Project partners: The Uprise Collective, Northwest Indigenous Food Sovereignty Alliance, NIFSA and Upstream Access
Community-Led Acquisitions
This pilot program is an innovative way to allow community members to guide agencies’ decisions in acquiring land for nature. It adds an extra layer of community power to the Nature in Neighborhoods Community Choice grant process by allowing community members to recommend projects that require land acquisition. During the previous round of Community Choice grantmaking held in 2025 in Washington County, community members could only select projects on already publicly owned land. This allows community members to dream big by thinking of new natural spaces on currently privately owned property. Metro is allocating up to $4.5 million for local governments
—
including Clackamas County and the cities of Milwaukie and Gladstone
—
to use for acquiring land from willing sellers to realize projects selected by community members during the Community Choice grantmaking process. Each agency is responsible for negotiating its respective land acquisitions, and no acquisitions are yet finalized. This funding comes from the 2019 bond’s Protect and Restore Land program.
Related pages
Nature in Neighborhoods grants
Nature in Neighborhoods grants support community projects and programs across the region, from local park improvements to stream restoration to hands-on nature education for people of all ages and backgrounds.
Parks and nature investments
Metro stewards 20,000 acres of nature parks and natural areas, helping take care of nature close to home in greater Portland.
Opportunities
Give your input
Jobs
Grants and funding
Contracts
Services
Ask a garbage and recycling expert
Apply for a contractor's business license
Buy a parks pass
Buy a cemetery plot
Get language assistance
Get ADA assistance
Metro employee hub
Pay my SHS tax
Leadership
Metro Council
Who is my councilor?
Metro Auditor
Committees
Metro logo, to the home page
Whether your roots in the region run generations deep or you moved to Oregon last week, you have your own reasons for loving this place — and Metro wants to keep it that way. Help shape the future of the greater Portland region and discover tools, services and places that make life better today.
Contact Metro
503-797-1700
Relay service 711
Send a message
Oregon Convention Center
Oregon Zoo
Portland Expo Center
Portland'5 Centers for the Arts
Find Metro on
Facebook
LinkedIn
Instagram
YouTube
© Oregon Metro. All rights reserved.