
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
City of 
Portland
O
ffice of the 
City Administrator 
1221 SW 4th Ave. 
Portland, OR 97204 
Future of Large-Scale Performing Arts 
Ex-Officio Table 
 
Memo: Recommendations on the Future of Large-Scale Performing Arts 
from the Ex-Officio Table 
Date: June 26,  2026  
From: Signing Ex-Officio Table Members* 
Julia Brim Edwards, Multnomah County Commissioner 
Ann Cudd, Portland State University President 
Jamie Dunphy, Portland City Councilor 
Rich Jaffe, Broadway Across America CEO 
Christine Lewis, Metro Councilor 
Dana Rokosny, Musicians Union AFM Local 99 President 
Sarah Schwarz, PSU Foundation President 
Paul Snyder, Oregon Symphony Executive Director 
Rose Etta Venetucci, IATSE Local 28 
Jessica Vega Pederson, Multnomah County Chair 
To:  Mayor Keith Wilson 
CC: City Administrator Raymond C. Lee III 
Deputy City Administrator Donnie Oliveira 
Background  
On October 10, 2024, Portland City Council unanimously adopted Resolution #37680 to accept 
the recommendations to pursue a strategy to develop two Broadway-capable venues, avoiding a 
prolonged closure of the Keller Auditorium, while greenlighting the path ahead for a traffic study, 
market feasibility study and subsequent financing strategy. Additionally, the resolution authorized 
the DCA to designate a steering committee to participate in the process—which is running in 
parallel to the ex-officio table's work.  
In November 2025, Mayor Keith Wilson invited key stakeholders from Portland's performing arts 
ecosystem to join his ex-officio table. The ex-officio table met four times between January-June 
2026 to review the details of the City's studies related to this project. The group was tasked with 
providing guidance on a decision as the City of Portland considers the future of the Keller 
Auditorium and the potential of a new venue at Portland State University (PSU).  
This memo represents a visionary future of performing-arts venues, drawing on the results of a 
survey completed in late May 2026 to solicit the opinions of individual table members. 
EXHIBIT E

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
  
2 
A Phased, Two -Venue  Solution  to Reignite  Portland’s Performing Arts  
Ecosystem  
While ex-officio members had a range of support across both venue options, nearly all members 
understand that closing the Keller Auditorium without an alternative venue is not a viable option 
and would carry major risks to Portland’s downtown economy and business, workers and culture. 
Given that nearly universal conclusion from the ex-officio table, this recommendation offers a 
vision that would sequence both projects—first building a new, Broadway-capable venue at PSU, 
keeping Keller Auditorium operational during construction and continue serving as Portland’s 
Broadway theatre and allowing the City to move next steps forward in renovating Keller 
Auditorium into a 1200–1800 seat facility that addresses unmet market needs. 
This strategic, phased plan allows the City to leverage state funding already provided to the PSU 
site, protect downtown economic activity every step of the way, and usher in a future of 
downtown performing arts that is right-sized to meet the facility capacity needs across the 
performing arts ecosystem.  
With this vision, we can position Portland as a performing arts capital for generations to come, 
with a range of venues that support the arts community across Portland and beyond. 
Approach  
A two‑year closure of the Keller without a suitable alternative venue would create significant 
economic losses for downtown, threaten hundreds of jobs, and weaken the city’s recovery. 
Maintaining Broadway programming is essential to sustaining Portland’s arts economy and its 
surrounding ecosystem of hospitality, tourism, and retail.   
Among the group, most viewed a large-scale, Broadway‑capable venue at PSU as the most 
forward‑looking investment. It creates a purpose‑built facility aligned with the needs of modern 
production and unlocks access to diverse funding pathways, including state investment.   
It is essential to keep Keller Auditorium operational during the multi‑year PSU design and 
construction period. This ensures that Portland retains major touring productions, protects the 
workforce that supports these productions, and maintains a critical revenue stream for the other 
venues of Portland’5 Centers for the Arts. This strategic approach to maintaining ongoing 
Broadway in downtown safeguards the region during a period of long‑term economic recovery 
following the COVID-19 pandemic.  
During PSU’s construction period, the City would plan next steps to reenvision the Keller as a 
right‑sized, modernized, City‑owned asset. With a 1200–1800 seat capacity, the Keller can serve 
a significant unmet need for mid‑sized performance space—demand repeated in the market 
feasibility study commissioned to support this work. By right-sizing to a smaller venue, a Keller 
renovation could include larger lobby and rehearsal spaces, expanded artist amenities, and 
opportunities to allow for more community utilization of the space, providing options that the 
current performing arts landscape cannot accommodate.  

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
  
3 
Once both phases are complete, with a new PSU venue combined with a modernized, mid-sized 
Keller, Portland will have a more sustainable and multi‑tiered performing arts ecosystem. This 
future-looking strategy will set Portland up to attract more performing arts productions; continue 
to build on its downtown arts district; and leads to decades of investment in downtown – while 
still addressing more immediate operational needs. 
Recommendations  
The ex-officio table recommends that the City should pursue the following direction: 
• First, advance the PSU performing arts center, capitalizing on available state funding, 
partner momentum and a future forward vision that expands Portland's arts ecosystem. 
• As next steps in planning, the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) will complete the 
following actions along with other pre-development functions:  
o A clear understanding of the City’s obligations and costs for the PSU project  
o Analysis on the return on invested capital (ROIC) 
o A fully defined capital stack  
o Funding timelines. 
• While PSU development is ongoing, maintain Broadway shows at the Keller to avoid 
economic disruption and preserve programming continuity. 
• At the same time, initiate planning for the Keller’s future—including financial analysis, 
market feasibility, and design—to allow for construction to begin once the PSU venue 
opens. 
• When the PSU venue becomes operational, transition Broadway productions there, and 
begin renovation of the Keller into a modern 1200–1800 seat venue tailored to the city's 
mid‑size market needs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* The following Ex Officio Table members did not sign on to the group recommendation:  
 
Abstained: 
Shane Jewell, Oregon Ballet Executive Director 
 
Did not support: 
Olivia Clark, Portland City Councilor 
Bob Naito, Halprin Landscape Conservancy 
LaJune Thorson, Downtown Neighborhood Association Board President 
Karen Whitman, Halprin Landscape Conservancy 