
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
Donnie Oliveira 
Deputy City Administrator  
Community & Economic Development 
City of Portland 
1120 SW 5th Ave 
Portland OR 97204 
J
une 24, 2026 
De
ar DCA Oliveira, 
Thank you for the opportunity to serve on the Steering Committee for the Future of Large-Scale 
Performing Arts project. We have weighed the technical, economic, social, philanthropic, and 
cultural dimensions of the important choices the City faces. Please accept this letter which 
outlines our collective vision and recommendations as the City makes critical decisions related 
to Portland’s cultural ecosystem and economy.  
A
 Vision for Transformative Impact 
The steering committee’s unanimous recommendation sets forth a cohesive vision for the 
transformation of performing arts in Portland. We support the pairing of a bold, creative 
investment in the new Portland State University Performing Arts + Culture Center along with 
civic stewardship and reinvention of the Keller Auditorium and/or site. Together, the investments 
will protect the economic engine of Broadway touring productions, support nonprofit arts 
organizations, strengthen the academic mission of Portland State University (PSU) and 
revitalize a key area of downtown Portland that includes the historic Ira Keller Fountain and 
Portland Open Space Sequence. By acting decisively now, the City can seize a 
once‑in‑a‑generation opportunity to build a performing arts ecosystem that is more resilient, 
inclusive, and vibrant. 
Recommendation 
Build a new Broadway‑capable venue as part of the proposed Performing Arts + Culture Center 
at Portland State University (PSU). Simultaneously, create an actionable plan to reimagine the 
Keller Auditorium and/or site based on Portland’s historic, cultural, and civic values in 
accordance with passionate public support expressed by the community.  
This unanimous committee recommendation supports a forward-thinking vision that expands the 
arts ecosystem and redefines Portland’s place on the nation’s cultural map for generations to 
come. 
A New Broadway‑Capable Venue at PSU 
After comprehensive review, the steering committee’s recommended approach avoids the 
catastrophic economic and employment impacts that would accompany a multi‑year Keller 
EXHIBIT D

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
Auditorium shutdown—estimated at two years of closure and 3–5 years without touring 
Broadway shows. These losses would be an extremely difficult recovery for Portland’s arts 
ecosystem and downtown businesses. 
Although considered by the committee, a temporary venue is not a viable option if the Keller is 
renovated to continue as a Broadway-capable facility. There are no existing venues in Portland 
or proven temporary venue models that could meet the needs of Broadway‑scale seating 
capacity, audience experience, and technical requirements. 
In contrast, PSU’s proposed complex delivers substantial immediate and long-term advantages. 
PSU already holds $157.6 million in committed funding from the State of Oregon, Prosper 
Portland, and private donors, with potential for further philanthropic investment due to the 
project’s scale and ambition. It will also leverage substantial private investment. The project 
meets the city’s need for a large modern auditorium, while enhancing the university’s academic 
mission and advancing training in all aspects of the performing arts. The new complex will also 
provide essential affordable rehearsal and performance space for small arts organizations—an 
ongoing gap in the city’s arts infrastructure. PSU has a stated intent to raise funds for this 
supportive role and for long term maintenance.  
The Essential Future of the Keller Auditorium 
The committee emphasizes in the strongest possible terms that the City must not allow the 
Keller Auditorium to sit unused or deteriorate but rather be reimagined and continue to provide 
public benefit. Its location, cultural significance, and relationship to the Keller Fountain make it a 
uniquely valuable civic asset. The site links to the existing cultural institutions and open spaces 
along the Broadway-South Park Blocks corridor and to new destinations such as the James 
Beard Public Market and Performing Arts + Culture Center. Furthermore, given its seismic 
condition, investment is mandatory even if it is not redeveloped as a large-scale theater. 
Multiple ideas have emerged from community and stakeholder feedback. While the steering 
committee does not endorse a single option, it unanimously recommends that the City begin an 
inclusive and immediate process to explore a major public space that honors the arts, the 
cultural landscape, and has public benefits. That process should include a committee to study 
options and budget, and community engagement to explore future concepts for the Keller 
Auditorium and/or site. The goal is to ensure that a plan is ready to implement when the new 
PSU theater opens. 
 
Additional Considerations 
Operating Agreements and Civic Accountability 
A new venue at PSU represents a major shift in Portland’s performing arts ecosystem. 
Currently, the Keller Auditorium functions as a financial engine for Portland’5, subsidizing other 
venues used heavily by nonprofit arts organizations. To ensure continued system-wide financial 
stability, the committee recommends a formal operating agreement between the City and PSU 
that secures a dedicated funding stream from PSU venue revenues to support Portland’5 and 

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
the broader arts sector. In addition, the committee recommends PSU and the City develop 
strategies to expand and grow public and private investments in Portland’s arts organizations 
and cultural corridors. 
Because the City and State will be major funders of the new facility, they also bear responsibility 
for establishing development criteria that maximize public benefit and ensure the interests of 
Portland’s performing arts community are incorporated into the facility’s design and operations. 
Touring Broadway Partnership 
Portland is a high‑performing and important market for touring Broadway producers. Given the 
significant public and private investments planned to ensure uninterrupted Broadway 
programming, the committee encourages PSU and the City to explore opportunities for touring 
Broadway producers to contribute financially to the Performing Arts + Culture Center and the 
ecosystem it will support. The City may have reasonable leverage to request such a 
partnership. 
 
Call to Action 
It is imperative that the City move forward in the most expeditious manner and commit the staff 
resources necessary to implement the committee’s recommendation. 
 
Sincerely,  
Brad Demby, RA, Brad Demby Architect 
Brianna McCoy, Saturday Academy 
Carl Abbott, Author, Urban Historian 
Carol Mayer-Reed, FASLA, Founding Partner Emeritus, Mayer/Reed 
Christopher McVoy, Co-founder, O'Neill McVoy Architects and Partner Emeritus Steven Holl 
Architects 
Edwina Kane, Portland Center Stage 
Helen Ying, Community and Cultural Leader  
Jim Brunberg, Mississippi Studios, Revolution Hall 
Lynda Moss, Moss Consulting 
Nick Schwartz-Hall, Independent Producer 
Sara Vonde Veld, Oregon Health & Science University 